<!-- Chunk 40 | Source: 1992 Macintosh Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 482 -->
Make sure that visible interface elements can be localized for other regions around the world. Whenever you design a user interface, consider that differences exist in the use of color, graphics, calendars, text, and the representation of time in various regions around the world. For example, different cultures use different objects to store documents. In the United States, file folders are flat and have tabs that can indicate the contents of the folder. In Europe, file folders are more like narrow cardboard boxes. You may want to localize elements of the user interface, such as graphics or the colors of text in versions of your application designed for different regions.  
Graphics have the potential to enhance your application, but they can also be offensive. In addition to colors, cultures assign varying values and characteristics to living creatures, plants, and inanimate objects. For example, in the United States the owl is a symbol of wisdom and knowledge, whereas in Central America the owl represents witchcraft and black magic. It's a good idea to avoid the use of seasons, holidays, or calendar events in software that you expect to distribute worldwide. Also avoid using graphics that represent holidays or seasons, such as Christmas trees, pumpkins, or snow—or be sure that the symbols can be localized.  
Different calendars are used to mark time around the world. The United States and most of Europe observe time according to the Gregorian calendar. The traditional Arabic calendar, the Jewish calendar, and the Chinese calendar are lunar rather than solar. Often time is marked according to one calendar for business and government purposes and according to a different calendar for religious events. Make your application flexible in handling dates; you also may want to provide the user with a way to change the representation of time. Use the text utilities to handle numbers, dates, and sorting.