<!-- Chunk 29 | Source: 2005-09 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 537 -->
Each Mac OS X operation involves the manipulation of an object using an action. In the first step of this manipulation, the user sees the desired object onscreen. In the second step, the user selects or designates that object. In the final step, the user performs an action, either using a menu command or by direct manipulation of the object with the mouse or other device. This leads to two paradigms for manipulating objects: explicit and implied actions.  
Explicit actions clearlystate the result of manipulatingan object.For example, menus list the commands that can be performed on the currently selected object. The name of the menu command clearly indicates what the action is and the current state of the command (dimmed or enabled) indicates whetherthat action is valid in the current context. Explicit actions do notrequire the userto memorize the commands that can be performed on a given object.  
Implied actions convey the result of an action through visual cues or context. A drag-and-drop operation is a common example of an implied action. Dragging one object onto another object constitutes a relationship between the objects and an action to be performed by the drag operation. For example, dragging a file icon to the Trash implies the imminent removal of the underlying file from the file system.For implied actions to be apparent, the user must be able to recognize the objects involved, the manipulation to be performed, and the consequences of the action.  
Keep these two paradigms in mind as you design your user interface. Examine the user's mental model of your application's task to help you determine when each type of action is appropriate. For example, Automator supports implied actions when the user drags actions into the workflow pane, creatingrelationships between them. Automator conveys these relationships by displayingconnection  
points between actions, warning of potentially undesirable consequences, and suggesting types of input and output. When it requires the user to provide specific information, however, Automator supports explicit actions with the display of checkboxes and editable text fields.