<!-- Chunk 54 | Source: 2005-09 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 412 -->
This part of *Apple Human Interface Guidelines* presents an overview of the user-centric, integrated design of Mac OS X. Read this part to learn about the design principles and technologies used in Mac OS X and how your application fits into that environment. You can also find out how to leverage existing technologies to add value to your user interface.  
#### **P A R T I I**  
The Macintosh Experience  
<span id="page-46-0"></span>Users are attracted to the Macintosh in general and to Mac OS X specifically because they feel the combination offers a superior user experience over other platforms. Macintosh computers are stylish, flexible, easy to set up, easy to maintain, and powerful. Mac OS X combines a reliable core with an intuitive design, stunning graphics, excellent security, and the features users want. Third-party applications enhance this package by deliveringspecific vertical solutionswith sophisticated features and behaviors that are consistent with Apple guidelines.  
In the spirit of helping you deliver outstanding solutions in your software products, the following sections present some high-level goals to strive for in your software design.  
For information about the technologies you can use to implement these design attributes, see *Mac OS X Technology Overview*.  
**Note:** Although achieving all of the goals in the following sections is desirable, doing so may not be practical or necessary in all cases. In the end, the needs of your user audience should guide you towards the most relevant choices. For more information about how to define your audience, see "Know Your [Audience](#page-24-2) " (page 25).