<!-- Chunk 38 | Source: 1987 Apple Human Interface Guidelines - The Apple Desktop Interface.pdf | Est. Tokens: 405 -->
Two principles should guide the design of your application: begin the design in black and white, and limit the use of color, especially in the application's use of the standard interface.  
#### Design in black and white  
You should design your application first in black and white. Color should be supplementary, providing extra information for those users who have color. Color shouldn't be the only thing that distinguishes, two objects; there should always be other cues, such as shape, location, pattern, or sound. There are several reasons for this:  
- Monitors: Many users won't have color monitors. The majority of Macintosh computers and many Apple II's have only <sup>a</sup> monochrome display.
- Printing: Currently, color printing is not very accurate, and even when highquality color printing becomes available, there is usually a significant change in colors between media (as you've noticed if you've ever compared an art reproduction to the original).  
- Colorblindness: A significant percentage of the population is colorblind to some degree (in Europe and America, about 8% of males and 0.5% of females have some sort of defective color vision). The most common form of colorblindness is an inability to distinguish red and green from gray. In another form, yellow, blue, and gray are indistinguishable.
- Lighting: Under dim lighting conditions, colors tend to wash out and become difficult for the eye to distinguish—the differences between colors must be greater, and the number of colors fewer, for them to be discernible. You can't know the conditions under which your application may be used.