<!-- Chunk 82 | Source: 1987 Apple Human Interface Guidelines - The Apple Desktop Interface.pdf | Est. Tokens: 642 -->
Character keys include keys for letters, numbers, and punctuation, as well as the Space bar. If the user presses one of these keys while entering text, the corresponding character is added to the text. The Enter, Tab, Return, Backspace (or Delete), Clear, and Escape keys are also treated like character keys. Although the result of pressing one of these keys depends on the application and the context, it is essential that they be used consistently, as described in the following paragraphs.  
#### Enter  
The Enter key tells the application that the user is through entering information in a particular area of the document, such as a field in an array. Most applications add information to a document as soon as the user types or draws it.However, the application may need to wait until <sup>a</sup> whole collection of information is available before processing it. In this case, the user presses the Enter key to signal that the information is complete. Enter Gike Return) can be used to dismiss dialog and alert boxes. While the user is entering text into a text document, pressing Enter has no effect.  
#### Tab  
In text-oriented applications, the Tab key is used to move the insertion point to the next tab stop. In other contexts, Tab is <sup>a</sup> signal to proceed: it signals movement to the next item in a sequence. Pressing Tab often causes an Enter operation before the tab takes place. While the user is entering text into a text document, pressing Tab moves the insertion point to the next tab stop.  
#### Return  
The Return key is another signal to proceed, but it defines a different type of motion than Tab. Pressing Return signals movement to the leftmost field one step lower on the display (like a carriage return on a typewriter). Return (like Tab) can cause an Enter operation before the Return operation. Return (like Enter) can be used to dismiss dialog and alert boxes. While the user is entering text into a text document, pressing Return moves the insertion point to the beginning of the next line.  
#### Backspace (or Delete)  
The Backspace (or Delete) key deletes text or graphics. Generally, if a selection has been made, pressing Backspace (or Delete) deletes the selection without putting it in the Clipboard—and without deleting the character to the left of the insertion point. If there is no selection, pressing Backspace (or Delete) deletes the character to the left of the insertion point without putting it in the Clipboard. The Backspace (or Delete) key has an effect like that of the Clear command in the Edit menu.