<!-- Chunk 9 | Source: 1987 Apple Human Interface Guidelines - The Apple Desktop Interface.pdf | Est. Tokens: 611 -->
There should be no secrets from the user, no abstract commands that only promise future results.  
There should be no significant difference between what the user sees on the screen and what eventually gets printed.  
A very important use of computers is the processing and printing of text and graphics. In some systems, the computer is an intermediary: the user manipulates a range of computer commands to indicate what is desired, and the computer passes these commands along to a printer. This kind of system keeps the user unnecessarily distant from the final document. The user should be in charge of both the content and the formatting (spatial layout as well as font choices) of the document. The computer should quickly and directly display the result of the user's choices, so the user doesn't have to wait for <sup>a</sup> printout or make mental calculations of how the screen version will be translated onto paper.  
The principle behind this approach is known as what you see is what you get (abbreviated WYSIWYG, pronounced wizzy-wig). This approach is highly consistent with the direct manipulation aspect of the Apple Desktop Interface. For example, when <sup>a</sup> user uses the Finder to copy <sup>a</sup> document from one disk to another, the user "sees" <sup>a</sup> copy of the document move to the new disk and can trust that the document isnow found on both disks. WYSrWYG is also in the spirit of using <sup>a</sup> computer as <sup>a</sup> thinking tool and as <sup>a</sup> production tool.  
#### User control  
The user, not the computer, Initiates and controls all actions.  
People learn best when they're actively engaged. Too often, however, the computer acts and the user merely reacts within a limited set of options. In other instances, the computer "takes care" of the user, offering only those alternatives that are judged "good" for the user or that "protect" the user from detailed deliberations.  
On the surface, the concept of computer as protector may seem quite appealing, but this approach puts the computer, rather than the user, in the driving role—something quite at odds with the basic philosophy of the Apple Desktop Interface.  
In the Apple Desktop Interface, if the user attempts something risky, the computer provides a warning, but allows the action to proceed if the user confirms that this is what he wants. This approach "protects" the beginner but allows the user to remain in control.