<!-- Chunk 82 | Source: 1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3.pdf | Est. Tokens: 631 -->
Whenever possible, the user, rather than the application, selects the key window and main window. This section describes how this happens and the part that the Application Kit plays. Later in this chapter, "Choosing the Key Window" describes when and how an application needs to choose its own key window.  
#### **In the Active Application**  
. In the active application, the user can select a new key window by clicking in it. If the window is a standard window, it's also made the main window. If it's a panel that accepts keystrokes, it's highlighted as the new key window, but the former main window retains its status and is highlighted in dark gray. The user can't select a main window without also making it the key window.  
The Application Kit chooses a new key window (or main window) for the active application whenever the user closes or miniaturizes the window currently having that status. Even if the application has no more windows on-screen, and thus no new key window can be chosen, the application still remains active: It's up to the user to decide whether to continue working in it.  
#### **When an Application Is Activated**  
When an application is activated, one of its windows is made the key window and one (usually the same one) is made the main window. Again, whenever possible, the user makes the selection:  
- If the user activates the application by clicking in a window that accepts keystrokes, it becomes the key window. If the window is a standard window, it's also made the main window.
- If the user activates the application by double-clicking a miniwindow, the window it represents again appears on-screen and becomes the key window and main window.  
If an application is activated without the user directly selecting a new key window, the user's previous selections are honored. For example, if the user reactivates an application by double-clicking its icon, the previous key window and main window are restored.  
**Note:** When a new application is activated, its key window may be highlighted before the former key window (in the deactivated application) loses its highlighting. This is a consequence of a multitasking environment. Users can begin working in one process (the new active application) before their instructions to another process (the previous active application) have been completed. Although the former key window may retain its highlighting for a short time, it's no longer the key window; all keyboard actions are associated with the new active application.