<!-- Chunk 65 | Source: 2006-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 541 -->
People who have a physical disability sometimes require additional access methods. For example, individuals may be without the use of a hand or an arm because of congenital anomalies, spinal cord injuries, repetitive stress injuries such as carpal tunnel syndrome, or progressive diseases. People in this group often have difficulty with computer input devices—such as the mouse or keyboard—and with removable storage media.  
<span id="page-50-4"></span>Some people have difficulty pressing more than one key at a time (required for many keyboard shortcuts, for example). With Sticky Keys, which can be turned on in the Keyboard pane of Universal Access preferences, users can press keys sequentially instead of simultaneously.  
<span id="page-50-2"></span>Users who have difficulty with fine motor movements may be unable to use a conventional mouse or may require modifications to keyboard behavior. In Keyboard preferences, users can choose how long they must press a key before it repeats; they may also specify a delay between when a key is pressed and when it is registered. In addition, Mac OS X provides ways for users to perform actions using the keyboard instead of the mouse. When full keyboard access mode is on, users can navigate to and select interface items using the keyboard. Mouse Keys, which can be turned on in the Mouse pane of Universal Access preferences, enables users to control the mouse with the numeric keypad to perform tasks such as dragging and resizing windows.  
Make sureyour application does not override anykeyboard navigation settings.For more information, see ["Keyboard](#page-308-0) Shortcuts Quick Reference"(page 309). In addition, don't override thekeyboard shortcuts used by assistive technologies. When an assistive technology is enabled, keyboard shortcuts used by that technology take precedence over the ones defined in your program.  
If you design hardware, be sure not to impose physical barriers that would impede someone with limited or no use of the hands or arms. For example, a disk drive with a latch would be difficult to open for a user who interacts with the computer using a pencil held in the mouth.