<!-- Chunk 97 | Source: 2006-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 492 -->
With **Apple Help**, you can display HTML files in **Help Viewer**, a browser-like application designed for displaying and searching help documents. Help Viewer can also display documents containing QuickTime content, open AppleScript-based automations, retrieve updated help content from the Internet, and provide context-sensitive assistance.  
<span id="page-72-5"></span>Users can access Apple Help bylaunchingthe Help Viewer application but theywill more commonly access it from your application, in one of three ways:  
- <span id="page-72-4"></span>■ **The Help menu.** The Help menu is the far-right item in the application region of the menu bar. The first item in the Help menu should be *ApplicationName* Help, which opens Help Viewer to the first page of your help content. Avoid cluttering the Help menu with URLs, tutorial titles, and such; instead provide access to those resources from within your help content. For more information on the Help menu, see "The Help [Menu"](#page-171-0) (page 172).
- <span id="page-72-7"></span><span id="page-72-3"></span>■ **Help buttons.** When necessary, you can use a Help button to provide easy access to specific sections of your help. When a user clicks a Help button, send either a search term or an anchor lookup (which leads to a specific page or pages) to Help Viewer. It's not necessaryfor every dialog and window in your application to have a Help button. If there is no contextually relevant information in the help, don't display a Help button.
- **From a contextual menu item.** If contextually appropriate help content is available for the object being pointed to, the first item in the contextual menu is Help. As with Help buttons, the menu item can send either a search term or an anchor lookup to Help Viewer.  
User Assistance **73**  
See *Providing User Assistance With Apple Help (Revision; Preliminary)* for more information on writing Apple Help content and providing it with your application.