<!-- Chunk 256 | Source: 2006-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 459 -->
Mac OS X applications can use these types of dialogs:  
- <span id="page-206-4"></span>■ **Modeless.** Enables users to change settings in a dialog while still interacting with document windows; theFindwindowin manyword processors is an example of a modeless dialog. Modeless dialogs have title bar controls (close, minimize, and zoom buttons).
- **Document modal.** Prevents the user from doinganythingelsewithin a particular document. The user can switch to other documents in the application and to other applications. Document-modal dialogs should be sheets, which are discussed in ["Document-Modal](#page-207-1) Dialogs (Sheets)" (page 208).
- **Application modal.** Prevents the user from doing anything else within the owner application; the user can switch to another application. Most application-modal dialogs do not have the standard title bar controls (close, minimize, zoom); the user dismisses these dialogs by clicking  
a push button, such as OK or Cancel. Application-modal dialogs that appear as the result of the user choosing a command, such as the Open dialog in [Figure](#page-217-0) 13-37 (page 218), should display a title that matches the command.  
An alert can be document modal or application modal. If the error condition or notification applies to a single document, the alert should be document modal (a sheet). See the Save Changes alert in [Figure](#page-221-0) 13-41 (page 222) for an example. If the alert applies to the state of the application as a whole, orto more than one document orwindowbelongingto that application, the alert should be application modal. Both the Review Changes alert for multiple unsaved documents ([Figure](#page-223-0) 13-43 (page 224)) and the Save Changes alert for applications that are not document-based [\(Figure](#page-222-0) 13-42 (page 223)) are application modal.