<!-- Chunk 62 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 888 -->
iPhone OS provides an edit (or pasteboard) menu that supports Cut, Copy, Paste, Select, and Select All operations in text views, web views, and image views. One of the ways users can reveal the menu is to first touch and hold to display the magnified view (which allows them to move the insertion or selection point to the correct location) and then release. If the menu is supported in the current context, it appears when the finger is lifted. Choosing Select in the menu selects the word or application-defined item in the view. Users can extend their selection by dragging the handles on the currently selected area. After a selection is made, the menu can display Cut, Copy, or Paste, as appropriate.  
You can adjust some of the behaviors of the edit menu to suit your application. (For information on how to implement these behaviors in code, see "Copy and Paste Operations" in *iPhone Application Programming Guide*.) For example, you can specify the subset of commandsthe menu displays and you can influence where the menu appears. You have no control over the color or shape of the menu itself.  
The commands visible in the edit menu make sense in the current context. For example, if nothing isselected, the menu does not contain Copy or Cut because these commands act on a selection. Similarly, if something isselected, the menu does not contain Select. If you support an edit menu in a custom view, you're responsible for making sure that the commands the menu displays are appropriate for the current context. Note that you cannot specify custom commands to display in the menu.  
UIKit displays the edit menu above or below the insertion point or selection, depending on available space, and places the menu pointer so that users can see how the menu commands relate to the content. You can programmatically determine the position of the menu before it appears, so you can prevent important parts of your application's user interface from being obscured, if necessary.  
Note that although the touch and hold gesture is the primary way users reveal the edit menu, they can also double-tap a word in a text view to select it and reveal the menu at the same time. If you support the menu in a custom view, you should respond to both gestures. In addition, you can define the object that is selected by default when the user double taps.  
Avoid creating a button that performs a command that's available in the edit menu. For example, it's better to allow users to perform a copy operation using the edit menu than to provide a Copy button, because users will wonder why there are two ways to do the same thing in your application.  
You can enable selection of static text, but only when the static text represents content that's useful to the user. For example, a user might want to copy the caption of an image, but they're not likely to want to copy the label of a tab item or a screen title, such as Accounts. In a text view, selection by word should be the default.  
Button titles should not be selectable because it would be difficult for users to reveal the edit menu without activating the button. In general, elements that behave as buttons don't need to be selectable.  
If you support the Cut, Copy, and Paste commands in your application, you should also support undo and redo (described in ["Supporting](#page-47-0) Undo and Redo" (page 48)). This is because the edit menu does not require confirmation before the actions are performed and users often expect to be able to undo recent operations if they change their minds.