<!-- Chunk 59 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 440 -->
iPhone applicationsshould start instantly so users can begin using them without delay. When starting, iPhone applications should:  
- Specify the appropriate status barstyle (see "The [Status](#page-66-1) Bar" (page 67) for information about the available styles).
- Display a launch image that closely resembles the first screen of the application. This decreases the perceived launch time of your application. For more information, see ["Launch](#page-130-1) Images" (page 131).
- Avoid displaying an About window, a splash screen, or providing any other type of startup experience that prevents people from using your application immediately.
- By default, launch in portrait orientation. If you intend your application to be used only in landscape orientation, launch in landscape regardless of the current device orientation. Allow users to rotate the device to landscape orientation if necessary.
- A landscape-only application should support both landscape orientations—that is, with the Home button on the right or on the left. If the device is already physically in a landscape orientation, a landscape-only application should launch in that orientation. Otherwise, a landscape-only application should launch in the orientation with the Home button on the right by default.
- Restore state from the last time your application ran.  
<span id="page-44-2"></span>**Important:** Don't tell usersto reboot or restart their devices after installing your application. If your application has memory-usage or other issues that make it difficult to run unless the system has just booted, you need to addressthose issues. For example,see "Using Memory Efficiently"in *iPhone Application ProgrammingGuide* for some guidance on developing a well-tuned application.