<!-- Chunk 89 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 367 -->
Changing the device orientation from portrait to landscape can change the height of the navigation bar automatically (you should not specify the height programmatically). In landscape orientation, the thinner navigation bar provides more space for your screen contents. Be sure to take the difference in heights into account when you design icons for navigation bar controls and when you design the layout of your screens.  
You can specify the color and translucency of a navigation bar to coordinate with the overall look of your application and with the other bars in it (that is, toolbars, tab bars, and the status bar). You can use a custom color or choose one of the standard colors:  
- Blue (the default color)
- Black  
If it complements the look of your application, you can add translucency to the navigation bar. When you use a translucent navigation bar, the screen gives the impression of having a larger visible area, which is especially desirable in landscape orientation. Be sure to avoid mixing a translucent navigation bar with an opaque black status bar (although you can display a translucent navigation bar with an opaque gray status bar).  
Strive for consistency in the appearance of navigation bars and other bars in your application. If you use a translucent navigation bar, for example, don't combine it with an opaque toolbar. Also, avoid changing the color or translucency of the navigation bar in different screens in the same orientation.