<!-- Chunk 30 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 798 -->
After reading about productivity, utility, and immersive application styles, think about the type of information your application displays and the task it enables. In theory, the type of application you should create is obvious to you and you're ready to get started; in practice, it's not always that simple. Here is a hypothetical scenario to consider as you make your decision.  
If you have a subject you'd like to explore, think about the objects and tasksrelated to it. Imagine the different perceptions people have of that subject. For example, consider the subject of baseball. Baseball brings to mind, among other things, teams, games, statistics, history, and players. Baseball is probably too extensive a subject for a single application, so consider just the players. Now imagine how you might create an application that relates to players—for example, using their likenesses on baseball cards.  
You could develop a productivity application that helps serious collectors manage their baseball card collections. Using list-based formats, you could display cards in a hierarchy of teams, then players, then seasons. In the most detailed view, you could give users the ability to note where they acquired the card, how much they paid for it, its current market value, and how many copies they have. Because the focus of this application is on the data that defines the collection, the user interface streamlines the tasks of seeking and adding information.  
You could also develop a utility application that displaysthe current market value of particular baseball cards. Each view could look like a baseball card with its current value added to the picture, and the back of the view could allow users to select specific cards to track and display. The focus of this application is on individual cards, so the user interface emphasizes the look of the cards and provides a simple control or two that allows users to look for new cards.  
Or, of course, you could develop a game. Perhaps the game would focus on the user's knowledge of certain statistics on individual baseball cards or ability to recognize famous cards. Or perhaps it would simply use baseball cards as icons in another type of game, such as a sliding puzzle. In each of these cases, the focus of the application is on the images on the baseball cards and the game play. The user interface complements this by displaying a few baseball-themed controls and hiding the iPhone OS user interface.  
It's important to reiterate that you're not restricted to a single application style. You may find that your application idea is best served by a combination of characteristics from different application styles.  
When in doubt, make it simple. Pare the feature list to the minimum and create an application that does one simple thing (see "Create a Product Definition [Statement"](#page-34-1) (page 35) for advice on how to focus your application). When you see how people use and respond to the application, you might choose to create another version of the application with a slightly shifted focus or altered presentation. Or, you might discover a need for a more (or less) detail-oriented version of the same concept.