<!-- Chunk 68 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 493 -->
Users can rotate iPhone OS–based devices at any time, and they expect the content they're viewing to respond appropriately. In your iPhone application, be sure to:  
■ Be aware of accelerometer values (for more information on the accelerometer and references to accelerometer programming interfaces, see *iPhone Application Programming Guide*). If appropriate, your application should respond to all changes in device orientation.  
- If there's a part of your application's user interface that displays in one orientation only, it's appropriate for that area to appear in that orientation and not respond to changesin device orientation. For example, when a user selects an iPod video to view, the video displays in landscape orientation, regardless of the current device orientation. This signals the user to physically rotate the device to view the video. The important point about this example is that iPod does not provide a "rotate now" button; instead, the user knows to rotate the device because the video appears in landscape orientation.
- Allow users to physically rotate the device to correctly view the parts of your application's user interface that require a specific orientation. Avoid creating a control or defining a gesture that tells users to rotate the device.
- Take advantage of the one-step orientation-change process to perform smoother, often faster rotations. However, if your screen layout is very complicated, you might choose instead to perform a cross-fade transition when an orientation-change occurs. To learn how to support the one-step process in your code, see *UIViewController Class Reference*.
- Users often rotate their devicesto landscape orientation because they want to "see more." If you respond by merely scaling up your content, you fail to meet users' expectations. Instead, you should respond by rewrapping lines of text and, if necessary, rearranging the layout of the user interface so that more content fits on the screen.