<!-- Chunk 61 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 951 -->
iPhone applications can offer settings that define preferred application behaviors or configuration options users can set to change some functionality of the application. Settings should represent information, such as an account name, that users set once and rarely (if ever) change. Users view application-specific settings in the built-in Settings application. Configuration options are values that users might want to change frequently, such as category types displayed in a list; configuration options should be available within the application itself.  
You should considersettings and optionsto be mutually exclusive. That is, you should not offer both settings and configuration options in your application.  
It's best when iPhone applications do not ask users to specify any settings at all. Users can begin to use these applicationsright away without being asked to supply set-up information. To achieve thisin your application, there are a few design decisions you can make:  
- **Focus your solution on the needs of 80 percent of your users**. When you do this, the majority of users do not need to supply settings because your application is already set up to behave the way most users expect. If there is functionality that only a handful of users might want, or that most users might want only once, leave it out.
- **Get as much information as possible from other sources**. If you can use any of the information users supply in built-in application or device settings, query the system for these values; don't ask users to enter them again.  
■ **If you must ask for set-up information, prompt users to enter it within your application**. Then, as soon as possible, store this information in your application's settings. This way, users aren't forced to quit your application and open Settings before they begin to benefit from your application. If users need to make changes to this information later, they can go to your application's settings at any time.  
It's not possible for users to open the Settings application without first quitting your application, and you should not encourage them to take this action. There is no system-provided icon or control that supports this action, and it's recommended that you avoid creating a custom icon or control that does. If you decide you must provide settings in your iPhone application, see "The Settings Bundle" in *iPhone Application Programming Guide* to learn how to support them in your code.  
**Note:** Application-specific settings should not include user help content.  
Unlike settings, configuration options are likely to be changed frequently as users choose to see information from new sources or in different arrangements. You can react dynamically to changes users make to these options, because users do not leave your application to access them.  
You can offer configuration options in the main user interface or on the back of a screen. To decide which technique makes sense, determine if the options represent primary functionality and how often users might want to set them.  
For example, Calendar allows users to view their schedules by day, week, or month. These options could have been offered on the back of the screen, but viewing different parts of a calendar is primary functionality and users are likely to change their focus frequently.  
On the other hand, the primary functionality of Weather is to display a city's current conditions and 6-day forecast. Although it's important to be able to choose whether temperatures are displayed in Celsius or Fahrenheit, users are not likely to change this option very often, so it would not make sense to put it in the main user interface. Offering the temperature-scale option on the back of the Weather screen makes it conveniently available, but not obtrusive.