<!-- Chunk 75 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1530 -->
Handling Common Tasks  
To influence how your application's audio should behave in situations such as these, use Audio Session Services or the AVAudioSession class. These programming interfaces do not produce sound; instead, they help you express how your audio should interact with audio on the device and respond to interruptions and changes in device configuration. Audio Session Services governs sound produced using technologies such as the AV Foundation framework, Audio Queue Services, OpenAL, and the I/O audio unit.  
**Note:** If your application produces only user-interface sound effects that are incidental to its functionality, you can use System Sound Services. System Sound Servicesisthe iPhone OS technology that produces alerts and user-interface sounds and invokes vibration; it is unsuitable for any other purpose and the sounds it produces are not governed by Audio Session Services. See the *SysSound* sample project for an example of using this technology.  
**Important:** No matter what technology you use to produce audio or how you define its behavior, the phone can always interrupt the currently running application. This is because no application should prevent users from receiving an incoming call.  
The audio session is an intermediary for audio between your application and the system. From a user-experience perspective, the most important facet of the audio session is the **category** that defines the audio behavior of your application.  
To provide a great audio user experience,select the category that best describesthe audio in your application. Be sure to make your choice based on the semantic meaning of a category, not its precise set of behaviors. This ensures that your application behaves according to users' expectations. In addition, it gives your application the best chance of working properly if the exact set of behaviors is refined in the future.  
In rare cases, you might need to enhance or refine a category's standard behavior by adding a property to the audio session. For example, you can add the  
kAudioSessionProperty\_OtherMixableAudioShouldDuck property to make sure your application's audio is louder than all other audio (except phone audio). You might do this if it's important for the user to hear the audio from your application while other audio is playing. However, you should be aware that a category's standard behavior represents what most users expect, so you should consider carefully before you add a property to refine that behavior. To learn more about audio session properties, see "Fine-Tuning the Category" in *Audio Session Programming Guide*.  
You can base your category selection on the current audio environment of the device. You might want to do thisif, for example, users can use your application while listening to other audio instead of the soundtrack you provide. If this makes sense for your application, be sure to avoid forcing users to stop listening to their music or make an explicit soundtrack choice when your application starts. See Scenario 2 in ["Putting](#page-56-0) it All [Together"](#page-56-0) (page 57) to learn how to do this.  
It's also possible to change categories while your application is running, although this is seldom necessary. The primary reason for doing thisis when an application needsto support recording and playback at different times. In such an application, it can be better to switch between the Record category and the Playback category as needed, than to choose the Play and Record category. This is because choosing the Record category ensures that no alerts (such as an incoming text message alert) will sound while the recording is in progress.  
Table 4-1 lists the audio session categories you can use. iPhone OS assigns the Solo Ambient category to an audio session by default.  
**Note:** In the interest of space, Table 4-1 displays only the last part of each category name. The actual symbol name of each category begins with AVAudioSessionCategory. The actual symbol name of the MixWithOthers property is kAudioSessionProperty\_OverrideCategoryMixWithOthers.  
<span id="page-56-1"></span>**Table 4-1** Audio session categories you can use to define sound behavior in your application  
| Category        | Meaning                                                                                  | Silenced by<br>Ring/Silent<br>switch and<br>locking | Mixes with other audio                                               |
|-----------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
| SoloAmbient     | Sounds enhance application functionality,<br>and should silence other audio              | Yes                                                 | No                                                                   |
| Ambient         | Sounds enhance application functionality,<br>but should not silence other audio          | Yes                                                 | Yes                                                                  |
| Playback        | Sounds are essential to application<br>functionality, and might mix with other<br>audio  | No                                                  | No (default)<br>Yes (when the<br>MixWithOthers<br>property is added) |
| Record          | Audio is user-recorded                                                                   | No                                                  | No                                                                   |
| PlayAndRecord   | Soundsrepresent audio input and output,<br>sequentially or simultaneously                | No                                                  | No (default)<br>Yes (when the<br>MixWithOthers<br>property is added) |
| AudioProcessing | Application performs hardware-assisted<br>audio encoding (it does not play or<br>record) | -                                                   | No                                                                   |