<!-- Chunk 100 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 352 -->
By default, a modal view slides up from the bottom edge of the screen and always coversthe entire application screen (as shown in the middle of [Figure](#page-78-2) 7-1 (page 79)). Because a modal view hides the current application screen, itstrengthensthe user's perception of entering a different, transient mode in which they can accomplish something.  
A modal view can display text if appropriate, and contains the controls necessary to perform the task. In addition, a modal view generally displays a button that completes the task and dismisses the view, and a Cancel button users can tap to abandon the task.  
A modal view supports more extensive user interaction than an action sheet. Unlike an action sheet, which accepts a single choice, a modal view supports multistep user interaction, such as the selection of more than one option or the inputting of information.  
Use a modal view when you need to offer the ability to accomplish a self-contained task related to your application's primary function. A modal view is especially appropriate for a multistep subtask that requires user interface elements that don't belong in the main application user interface all the time. A good example of a modal view is the compose view in Mail. When users tap the Compose button, a modal view appears that contains text areas for the addresses and message, a keyboard for input, a Cancel, and a Send button.