<!-- Chunk 44 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 650 -->
Translatingtext is a sophisticated, delicate task. Avoid usingcolloquial phrases or nonstandard usage and syntax. Carefully choose words for menu commands, dialogs, and help text. Text in U.S. English can grow up to 50 percent longer when translated to other languages.  
<span id="page-50-2"></span>Use complete sentences in string resources whenever possible. Grammar problems may arise when you concatenate multiple strings to create sentences; theword order maybecome completely different in another language, rendering the message nonsensical when translated. For example, word order in German sometimes places the verb at the end of a sentence. For more information on handling text in other languages, see *Internationalization Programming Topics*.  
#### <span id="page-50-5"></span>Text Display and Text Editing  
<span id="page-50-7"></span>Writingsystems differin the direction inwhich their characters and lines flow, the size of the character set used, andwhether certain characters are context-dependent. Mac OS X supports Unicode, a single character set for mostwritingsystems in theworld. Unicode is a cross-platform, international standard for character encoding.  
<span id="page-50-6"></span>Text handlingfor Cocoa is entirelybased on Unicode.For Carbon developers, there is a set of functions for manipulating Unicode text. For more information about Unicode support, see *Internationalization Programming Topics*.  
<span id="page-50-4"></span>No matter what level of worldwide text support you provide, it's important to keep in mind that:  
- Text isn't always left-aligned and read from left to right.
- Text isn't always read by a person; it might be spoken through a screen reader.
- System and application fonts may change, so don't assume any particular font will be present. Instead, use the calls provided by your application framework.  
#### <span id="page-50-3"></span>Resources  
<span id="page-50-0"></span>It's essential to store region-dependent information in separate resource files so that user-visible text can be translated duringlocalizationwithout requiringyour application's code to be modified. When creating window layouts, consider text size, location, and direction. Text size varies in different languages. Also, depending on the script system, the direction of the text may change. Most Middle Eastern languages read from right to left. Text location within a window should be easy to change. For more information, see *Internationalization Programming Topics* and see the Apple International Technologies website at <http://developer.apple.com/intl>.