<!-- Chunk 191 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 639 -->
<span id="page-177-6"></span>**About** *ApplicationName***.** Opens your application's About window, which contains copyright information and version number. (For more information, see "About [Windows"](#page-236-1) (page 237). If you've specified a short name (see "The [Application](#page-177-2) Menu Title" (page 178)), use it in the About menu item; use the full application name in the About window.  
**Preferences… (Command-,).** Opens a preference window for your application. See *Multiple User Environments* for more information on handling preferences in a multiple-user environment.  
<span id="page-177-7"></span>In the application menu, put all commands that provide access toyour application's preference dialogs first, followed by application-specific items. Put a menu separator between the About command and the Preferences command. If your application provides document-specific preferences, make them available in the File menu (see "The File [Menu"](#page-178-0) (page 179)). Most document-specific preferences should have a unique name, such as Page Setup, rather than Preferences.  
**Services.** The Services submenu provides awayfor one application to offerits capabilities to another application. See *Mac OS X Technology Overview* for more information on services.  
<span id="page-178-3"></span>**Hide** *ApplicationName***(Command-H).** Hides all of thewindows of the currentlyrunningapplication and brings the mostrecently used application to the foreground. If necessary, use the short application title (see "The [Application](#page-177-2) Menu Title" (page 178)).  
<span id="page-178-7"></span><span id="page-178-4"></span>**Hide Others (Command-Option-H).** Hides the windows of all the other applications currently running.  
<span id="page-178-5"></span>**Show All.** Shows all windows of all currently running applications.  
**Quit** *ApplicationName* **(Command-Q).** This last item in the application menu should be preceded by a separator. When a user chooses Quit and there are unsaved documents, present the necessary alerts (see "Dialogs for Saving, Closing, and [Quitting"](#page-249-0) (page 250)). If necessary, use the short application name (see "The [Application](#page-177-2) Menu Title" (page 178)).  
<span id="page-178-2"></span><span id="page-178-0"></span>You may include other application-specific menu items between the Preferences and Services menu items. Don't include a Help menu item however, because this belongs in the Help menu (see ["The](#page-186-0) Help [Menu"](#page-186-0) (page 187)).