<!-- Chunk 52 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1400 -->
Meetingthe minimum requirements and deliveringfeatures users expect takesyou a longwaytowards producingan application that users in your target marketwill be eager to buy. Although the top layer of the pyramid represents more work, the result is a user-acclaimed application that takes full advantage of the powerful features of Mac OS X.  
Follow the guidelines in this section to produce an application that goes above and beyond users' expectations.  
#### ■ Support modelessness.  
As much as possible, avoid forcing the user to complete the current task before they can do anything else. Use sheets and drawers to allow the user more freedom (for more information about sheets and drawers, see "Sheets [\(Document-Modal](#page-238-2) Dialogs)" (page 239) and ["Drawers"](#page-215-0) (page 216)). Ifyou must use modes in your application, be sure to clearlycommunicate the current status and make it easy for users to get into and out of a mode.  
#### ■ Integrate Spotlight.  
Spotlight technology allows users to find files anywhere in the system, using criteria they define. Be sure to supply a Spotlight importer if your application uses a custom file format, so users can easilysearch forthe filesyour application creates. In addition,you should consider usingSpotlight technology to provide file system search capabilities in your application. For more information about Spotlight, see ["Spotlight"](#page-79-1) (page 80).  
■ Support fast user switching.  
Mac OS X allows multiple users to use a single computer at the same time. With fast user switching, one user's login session is activewhile the sessions of other users continue to run in the background. Users switch simplybyloggingin; loggingout between users is notrequired. Applications should take this feature into account to avoid failing in a multiple, simultaneous user environment. If your application relies on exclusive access to resources or assumes there is only one instance of a per-user service running at any one time, be sure to modify the application to safely identify and share system resources. For more information on how to support fast user switching, see *Multiple User Environments*.  
#### ■ Internationalize the user interface.  
Theglobal market foryour application is defined bythe extent towhich it supports locale-specific content and functionality. As you design or revise your application, be aware of differences in language and cultural values and symbols soyou can more easilylocalizeyour product for specific markets.For more information on internationalization issues, see "Worldwide [Compatibility"](#page-49-0) (page 50).  
■ Make your application accessible to users with disabilities.  
To reach the millions of users with disabilities (and to comply with government-mandated accessibilityrequirements in some markets),you should ensure thatyour application is accessible. Mac OS X supports accessibilitywith a range of powerful features, includingfullkeyboard access, speech technologies, and VoiceOver, an integrated accessibility interface to the Macintosh. You should testyour applicationwith these features to make sure that the application does not interfere with them and potentially degrade a disabled user's experience. For an overview of accessibility issues, see "Universal [Accessibility"](#page-50-0) (page 51).  
■ Strive for high performance and reliability.  
Even a stunning user interface is not likely to be enough to persuade users to continue using an application that performs poorly or behaves in a counterintuitive and unreliable way. Remember that the perception of performance is informed bytwo things: The speedwithwhich an application processes data and performs operations and the speed with which the application responds to the user. Take advantage of the tools and optimization technologies Mac OS X provides to enhance the performance of your application. Be sure your application responds quickly and keeps the user informed about the progress of lengthy tasks. For more information on some techniques for achieving high performance, see "High [Performance"](#page-32-1) (page 33).  
Users will be quick to reject your application if it loses or corrupts data or behaves erratically. Build in as manysafeguards against data loss asyou can and be sure towarn users about potential problems, allowing them to make alternate choices that avoid risky situations. Although unpredictable behavior may not lead to data loss, it can cause users to distrust an application. Make sure the user interface elements in your application behave in an expected and desiredway so users can trustyour application to dowhat it promises.For more information onways to make your application reliable, see ["Reliability"](#page-36-0) (page 37).  
#### ■ Surprise and delight.  
Although less concrete than the other guidelines, this guideline encompasses some of the most important qualities of great software. Fundamentally, users delight in applications that seem to understand them, anticipating their needs and providing them with powerful, intuitive, and streamlined solutions. The best way to follow this guideline is to keep the user's mental model firmly in mind as you design your application (for a discussion of this concept, see ["Reflect](#page-41-0) the User's Mental [Model"](#page-41-0) (page 42)). Briefly,you should discoveryour users'workflow, expectations, and real-world experiences and mirror them in your application's terminology, window layout, menu organization and hierarchy, and toolbar contents.  
#### **C HAPTER 4**  
Prioritizing Design Decisions