<!-- Chunk 45 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1814 -->
Millions of people have a disability or special need and computers hold tremendous promise for increasing the productivity of such users. Many countries, including the United States, have laws mandating that certain equipment provide access for users with a disability.  
It's a good idea to build in support for universal access from the beginning of your design process rather than add it at the end of your implementation cycle. When you think about designing for the wide range of abilities in your target audience, think about increasing productivity for the entire audience; be careful not to overcompensate for the disabilities of certain members. Don't let accommodations for a particular disabilitycreate a burden for peoplewho do not have that disability.  
Mac OS X has many built-in features designed to accommodate people with special needs. Users can access these features in the Universal Access pane of System Preferences. Once activated, these technologies programmatically manipulate the user interface of your application in ways that can help users with disabilities.  
**Important:** Your application should not override any of the accessibility features built in to Mac OS X, such as the ability to perform all user interface functions using the keyboard instead of the mouse, or any preference that a user might select to assist with a disability.  
Be sure to test your applications with the assistive features available in the Universal Access pane of System Preferences. Although there may be situations in which you do not need to accommodate all these features, you should fully understand your user audience before making any design decisions that override these features. For example, it might be extremely difficult to create a visual design tool that works in grayscale, but you should still try to make the other parts of the program accessible whenever possible.  
To learn more about the Mac OS X accessibility architecture and how to support accessibility in your application (a process called access enabling), see *Accessibility Overview*. For more information on assistive technologies, see *Mac OS X Technology Overview*.  
When you design your application, you should be aware of potential manipulation by assistive technologies and implement features in a way that does not degrade the experience for users with disabilities. The following sections describe the main categories of disabilities and give suggestions for specific design solutions and adaptations you can make. Keep in mind that there is a wide range of disabilities within each category and there are many people with multiple disabilities.  
#### <span id="page-51-3"></span><span id="page-51-1"></span>Visual Disabilities  
People with a visual disability have the most trouble with the display (the screen). Some users need high contrast. Software that can handle different text sizes makes it easier to support people with a visual disability. Mac OS X (version 10.2 and later) provides an onscreen zooming option in Universal Access preferences.Followingthe layoutguidelines provided in "Layout [Guidelines"](#page-350-0) (page 351) helps users with low vision by ensuring the proper use of spacing and alignment.  
In Mac OS X version 10.4, Apple introduced VoiceOver, a full-featured spoken interface for the Macintosh. VoiceOver allows users to navigate the user interface of the system and any accessible application and provides an audible description of the user'sworkspace and all the activities occurring on the computer. You should test your application using VoiceOver to make sure it's fully accessible. For more information on accessibility in Mac OS X, see *Accessibility Overview*.  
<span id="page-51-0"></span>Keep in mind that some people have color-vision deficiencies. Although the judicious use of color can enhance your application's user interface, don't create interfaces that rely solely on color coding to convey important information. Color coding should always be redundant to other types of cues, such as text, position, or highlighting. Allowing users to select from a variety of colors to convey information enables them to choose colors appropriate for their needs.  
#### <span id="page-51-2"></span>Hearing Disabilities  
People with a hearing disability cannot hear auditory output at normal volume levels or cannot hear it at all. Software should never rely solely on sound to provide information; if cues are given with sound, they should be available visually as well. Since Mac OS X allows users to specify a visual cue in addition to the standard audible cue for the system alert, be sure to use the standard system alert when you need to get the user's attention.  
To indicate activity, hardware should have visible lights in addition to the sound generated by the mechanisms. Hardware that specifically produces sound should facilitate external amplification. For example, including a jack for external speakers or headphones allows people to amplify sound to an appropriate level.  
#### <span id="page-52-3"></span>Physical Disabilities  
People who have a physical disability sometimes require additional access methods. For example, individuals may be without the use of a hand or an arm because of congenital anomalies, spinal cord injuries, repetitive stress injuries such as carpal tunnel syndrome, or progressive diseases. People in this group often have difficulty with computer input devices—such as the mouse or keyboard—and with removable storage media.  
<span id="page-52-4"></span>Some people have difficulty pressing more than one key at a time (required for many keyboard shortcuts, for example). With Sticky Keys, which can be turned on in the Keyboard pane of Universal Access preferences, users can press keys sequentially instead of simultaneously.  
<span id="page-52-2"></span>Users who have difficulty with fine motor movements may be unable to use a conventional mouse or may require modifications to keyboard behavior. In Keyboard preferences, users can choose how long they must press a key before it repeats; they may also specify a delay between when a key is pressed and when it is registered. In addition, Mac OS X provides ways for users to perform actions using the keyboard instead of the mouse. When full keyboard access mode is on, users can navigate to and select interface items using the keyboard. Mouse Keys, which can be turned on in the Mouse pane of Universal Access preferences, enables users to control the mouse with the numeric keypad to perform tasks such as dragging and resizing windows.  
Make sureyour application does not override anykeyboard navigation settings.For more information, see ["Keyboard](#page-370-0) Shortcuts Quick Reference" (page 371). In addition, don't override the keyboard shortcuts used byassistive technologies. When an assistive technologyis enabled,keyboard shortcuts used by that technology take precedence over the ones defined in your program.  
If you design hardware, be sure not to impose physical barriers that would impede someone with limited or no use of the hands or arms. For example, a disk drive with a latch would be difficult to open for a user who interacts with the computer using a pencil held in the mouth.