<!-- Chunk 41 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 528 -->
The best approach to developing easy-to-use software is to keep the design as simple as possible. In other words, a simple design is a good design and the best tools are those that users are not even aware theyare using. The moreyou can do to simplifythe interface ofyour application foryour users, the more likely it is that you will build a product that meets their needs and is enjoyable to use.  
The more complex your application's task, the more important it is to keep the user interface simple and focused. Be sure your design reflects the user's mental model (see ["Reflect](#page-41-0) the User's Mental [Model"](#page-41-0) (page 42) for more information on this concept). In addition to creating a streamlined design, you can also manage complexity in the following ways:  
- Progressive disclosure presents the most common choices to the userfirst and provides an option that allows the user to view additional information and choices. This technique makes it easy for novice users to understand your userinterfacewhile stillgiving power users the advanced features they want.
- You can implement progressive disclosure using disclosure triangles (see ["Disclosure](#page-332-1) [Triangles"](#page-332-1) (page 333)) or disclosure buttons (see ["Disclosure](#page-334-0) Buttons" (page 335)), depending on the context.
- Inspector windows (and, to a lesser extent, Info windows) reduce the clutter of a user interface by placingadditional information and settings in a separatewindowthat can be hidden or shown by the user.
- For more information on the differences between Info windows and inspector windows and how to use inspector windows, see "Inspector [Windows"](#page-231-0) (page 232).
- Preferences reduce the complexity of the user interface by giving users the ability to customize what they see on the display screen and, to some extent, how the application performs. By providing preferences, you allow both novice and expert users to mold your application to fit their needs.  
For more information on how to craft a useful set of preferences, see ["Preferences"](#page-77-0) (page 78).