<!-- Chunk 244 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 519 -->
In versions of Mac OS X prior to v10.5, if your application used a brushed metal window, it also used metal buttons. In Interface Builder and the Application Kit, this button type was referred to as "textured." As discussed in "Window [Appearance"](#page-193-0) (page 194), however, Mac OS X v10.5 and later does not include the brushed-metal lookforwindows. Ifyou designed an application to run in versions of Mac OS X prior to v10.5, you will probably receive the Leopard window look automatically when the application runs in Mac OS X v10.5 and later, but you may need to update the buttons you used.  
As discussed in ["Window-Frame](#page-259-0) Controls" (page 260), there are only three standard window-body controls that can be used in a toolbar, in addition to the rectangular-style and capsule-style toolbar controls introduced in Mac OS X v10.5. These three controls are:  
- Icon buttons (including icon buttons that contain a pop-up menu)
- Action menus  
#### ■ Search fields  
If your toolbar contains any control types other than the three listed above and rectangular-style and capsule-style toolbar controls, remove them.  
If you used a metal (textured) button in your toolbar or bottom-bar area, examine its height. If the height is 23 pixels for the regular size (18 pixels for the small size), the button should automatically appear as a rectangular-style toolbar control when the application runs in Mac OS X v10.5 and later.  
The Interface Builder library in Interface Builder 3.0 and later provides a style of an NSButton object called "textured," but this button style should be considered a transitional control only. If you place a regular-size textured button in a window-frame area and resize its height to 23 pixels (from the default height of 20 pixels), you'll notice that its appearance changes to that of the rectangular-style toolbar control. Therefore, if you're developing an application to run in both Mac OS X v10.5 and versions of Mac OS X prior to v10.5, you can use this button style to ensure the appropriate look for these versions.