<!-- Chunk 94 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 402 -->
After you've created the necessary app icon assets, place them in folder a named icon.iconset. You can preview your .iconset folder to ensure the proper alignment and resolution handling of all your app icon resources. Select the folder in Finder and press Space bar to open Quick Look. You should see a slider at the bottom of the window. By adjusting the slider, you can view the various assets as though they are one icon.  
Use the system-provided tools to convert your .iconset folder into a single .icns file. First, use an image-editing program to output your app iconsin the PNG format, which preserves your design's alpha values. Your source art files should use sRGB and retain their color profiles. You don't need to compress image files because the tools used to package them take care of compression for you.  
To create an .icns file, use iconutil in Terminal. Terminal is located in /Applications/Utilities/Terminal. Enter the command iconutil -c icns <iconset filename>, where <iconset filename> isthe path to the .iconset folder. You must use iconutil, not Icon Composer, to create high-resolution .icns files. For more information, see "Provide High-Resolution Versions of All App Graphics Resources" in *High Resolution Guidelines for OS X* .  
There are also several third-party tools available for completing thisstep. Note that an .icns file is appropriate for app icons and document icons only; it is not an acceptable format to use for other types of icons in your app. (To learn more about creating document iconsfor your app,see ["Designing](#page-126-0) Document Icons" (page 127).)