<!-- Chunk 48 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 481 -->
A reliable, stable app behaves in predictable ways and maintains the integrity of the user's data, while doing everything possible to prevent data loss or corruption. It also has a certain amount of maturity to it and can handle complex situations without crashing.  
**Reopen in the same state in which users left your app.** Preserving user-modifiable settings, such as window dimension and location, enhances users' perception of the stability of your app. OS X makesstate-preservation easy to achieve when you enable Resume. To learn how to support Resume in your code, see "User Interface Preservation" in *Mac App Programming Guide* .  
**Make sure UI elements behave the way users expect them to.** When UI elements work as expected, users are more likely to trust your app to do what it promises. In particular, it's crucial to avoid altering the meaning of the standard UI elements that users are familiar with.  
**Provide status and feedback to show that your app is performing the specified task.** Users need to be able to trust that your app is acting upon their commands and they appreciate knowing how long a process will take. One way to provide status feedback is by using a progress indicator; to learn how to use a progress indicator in your app, see "Progress [Indicators"](#page-276-1) (page 277).  
**Make sure users receive predictable output from their content.** If your app enables users to format data for printing, web publishing, or writing to film, DVD, or other formats, make sure there are no significant differences between what users see onscreen and what they receive in the final output.  
<span id="page-52-1"></span>**Anticipate errors and help users avoid them when possible.** A stable, reliable app minimizes the potential for error by, for example, validating user input before processing it. The more you can help users avoid triggering errors, the fewer problems you have to handle.