<!-- Chunk 11 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 533 -->
OS X runs on systems with displays of varying size, resolution, and number. For example, some users prefer to spread their work across one main screen and a couple of auxiliary screens. Other users might use a display that rotates. Users expect their apps to run smoothly and look great, regardless of the number or type of displays they're using.  
Users can expand their workspace by adding displaysto the system. Mac users have always enjoyed the option of using more than one display plugged into a single computer. Successful Mac apps accommodate this usage pattern by paying attention to the location of the menu bar and opening new windows where the user expects. To learn more about opening and positioning a window appropriately, see "UI Element [Guidelines:](#page-167-0) [Windows"](#page-167-0) (page 168).  
Some users have the ability to rotate their displays, which reverses the aspect ratio of the screen. For example, if a user's display is set to a screen resolution of 1024 x 768 (an aspect ratio of 1.33:1), after rotation the screen resolution is 768 x 1024 (an aspect ratio of .75:1). A good Mac app pays attention to screen-update events and responds appropriately.  
High-resolution displays call attention to app graphics. In particular, a high-resolution display can make an unprepared app look bad, especially one that specifies drawing measurements in pixels instead of points. For an overview of issues to address in your code, see *High Resolution Guidelines for OS X* . To learn more about creating graphics that look great at any resolution, see "Creating Great Icons for Any [Resolution"](#page-115-0) (page 116).  
**Note: Pixel** is the appropriate unit of measurement to use when referring to the size of a display screen or the size of an icon you create in an image-editing app. **Point** is the appropriate unit of measurement to use when discussing the size of an area that is drawn onscreen.  
On a standard-resolution display, one point equals one pixel, but other resolutions might dictate a different relationship. To learn more about this topic, see *High Resolution Guidelines for OS X* .