<!-- Chunk 106 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 483 -->
All AppKit controls and views have a standard appearance that's appropriate for most uses. For some AppKit controls, you can also specify an alternate appearance for use in a window-frame area or in a vibrant context, such as in a sidebar area or in a Notification Center widget. To learn more about these appearances, see [Some](#page-176-1) [Controls](#page-176-1) Can Be Used on the Window Frame (page 177) and Some Controls and Views Can Be Vibrant (page ?).  
**Avoid mixing control sizes in the same view.** Many controls are available in three sizes: regular, small, and mini. In most cases, use regular-size controls in your windows. When space is at a premium, such as in a panel or within a pane, you can use small or (less often) mini controls. In general, it's best to avoid mixing different sizes of controls in the same window.  
**In general, avoid resizing controls vertically.** Many controls can be resized horizontally, but most controls are fixed vertically for each available size. If you vertically resize some controls, you might trigger unexpected results, such as a change in control style.  
**Use the system font and the proper text size within a control.** For example, a regular-size control generally uses the regular system font for text that appears within it, such as "OK" in a button or a menu item name in a pop-up menu. When you create your UI in Interface Builder, you automatically get the proper font and size for each standard control you use.  
<span id="page-176-1"></span>**Use the proper spacing between controls.** When controls are spaced evenly in a window, the window is more attractive and easier for usersto use. The layout guidesin Interface Buildershow you the recommended spacing between controls and between UI elements and window edges. Using Auto Layout helps you maintain your layout when the window resizes or UI elements change size (for example, as a result of localization).