<!-- Chunk 41 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 402 -->
Consistency in the interface allows users to transfer their knowledge and skills from one app to another. Applying the principle of consistency does not mean that your app must look and behave the same as all other apps. Rather, the principle of consistency holds that an app should respect its users and avoid forcing them to learn new ways to do things for no other reason than to be different.  
When thinking about how your app handles consistency, consider the principle in the following contexts. Specifically, is your app consistent with:  
- **OS X standards?** For example, does the app use the reserved and recommended keyboard equivalents for their correct purposes? Does it use standard UI elements correctly and integrate well with the Finder, the Dock, and other OS X features that users appreciate? For more information about these items, see [Keyboard](#page-296-0) Shortcuts (page 297) and [Integrating](#page-54-0) with OS X (page 55).
- **The app itself?** Does it use consistent terminology for labels and features? Do icons mean the same thing every time they are used? Are concepts presented in similar ways across all modules? Are similar controls and other UI elements located in similar places in windows and dialogs?
- **Earlier versions of the app?** Have the terms and meanings remained the same between releases? Are the fundamental concepts essentially unchanged?
- **People's expectations?** Does it meet the needs of the user without extraneous features? Does it conform to the user's mental model? For more information on this concept, see [Mental](#page-60-1) Model (page 61).