<!-- Chunk 177 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1197 -->
Keyboard shortcuts can provide an easy way for sophisticated users to perform actions, but don't feel that you must create a shortcut for every command. If you can't find a unique and easy-to-use keyboard shortcut for a command, don't use one at all; keep in mind that users may have difficulty pressing multiple modifier keys anyway.  
**Important:** Alwaysrespect the system-reserved keyboard shortcutsin your app so that users aren't confused when the shortcuts they know work differently in your app.  
**Avoid creating a shortcut by adding a modifier key to an existing shortcut, unless the shortcuts are related.** For example, don't use Shift-Command-Z as a keyboard shortcut for a command that is unrelated to Undo. Using Shift-Command-Z for Redo is appropriate, but using it for something like Calculate or Check Mail is confusing.  
**As much as possible, use the Command key as the main modifier key in a keyboard shortcut.** For example, Command-P uses Command to modify the P key. For a command that complements another more common command, you can add Shift to the shortcut. For example, the shortcut for the complementary Page Setup command adds Shift to the shortcut for Print to give Shift-Command-P. Examples of keyboard shortcuts that use Shift to complement other commands gives additional examples of this technique.  
<span id="page-297-0"></span>**Table 68-2** Examples of keyboard shortcuts that use Shift to complement other commands  
| Complementary command<br>shortcut | Complementary command                                                                                                   | Complemented command<br>shortcut |
|-----------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| Shift-Command-A                   | Deselect<br>All                                                                                                         | Command-A<br>(Select<br>All)     |
| Shift-Command-G                   | Find<br>Previous                                                                                                        | Command-G<br>(Find<br>Again)     |
| Shift-Command-P                   | Page<br>Setup                                                                                                           | Command-P<br>(Print)             |
| Shift-Command-S                   | Save<br>As                                                                                                              | Command-S<br>(Save)              |
| Shift-Command-V                   | Paste<br>as<br>(Paste<br>as<br>Quotation,<br>for<br>example)                                                            | Command-V<br>(Paste)             |
| Shift-Command-Z                   | Redo<br>(when<br>Undo<br>and<br>Redo<br>are<br>separate<br>commands<br>rather<br>than<br>toggled<br>using<br>Command-Z) | Command-Z<br>(Undo)              |  
**Note:** Other languages may require modifier keys to generate certain characters. For example, on a French keyboard, Option-5 generates the "{" character. It's usually safe to use the Command key as a modifier, but avoid using Command and an additional modifier key with characters not available on all keyboards. If you must use a modifier key in addition to the Command key, try to use it only with the alphabetic characters (*a* through *z* ).  
**Use the Option key sparingly.** If there's a third, less common command that's related to a pair of commands that use Command and Shift-Command, you can use Option-Command for the third command's keyboard equivalent. Use combinations like these very rarely. You can also use Option for a keyboard shortcut that's a convenience or power-user feature. For example, the Finder uses Option-Command-W for Close All Windows and Option-Command-M for Minimize All Windows.  
**As much as possible, avoid using the Control key.** Because the Control key is already used by some of the universal access features—as well as in Cocoa text fields where Emacs-style key bindings are often used—it should be used as a modifier key only when necessary.  
**List multiple modifier keys in the correct order.** If you use more than one modifier key in a shortcut, always list them in this order: Control, Option, Shift, Command.  
**Identify a key with two characters by the lower character, unless Shift is part of the shortcut.** For example, the keyboard shortcut for Hide Status Bar is Command-Slash (that is, Command-/). If the Shift key is part of the keyboard shortcut, identify the key by the upper of the two characters. For example, the keyboard shortcut for Help is Shift-Command-Question Mark, not Shift-Command-Slash.