<!-- Chunk 15 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 604 -->
Most apps need to support text entry in some form. It's a good idea to make the process as easy and convenient as possible.  
**When possible and appropriate, automatically fill in text fields as users type.** Users appreciate the convenience of having some information supplied for them, as long as it's correct. If you can't guarantee the accuracy of the information you provide, it's better to leave text fields empty. If you supply text, be sure to indicate the fields you are filling in (perhaps by highlighting them), so that the user can easily distinguish the information your app provides from the information they provide. *Note that a password field should always be empty.*  
**Perform appropriate edit checks as users enter information.** For example, if the only legitimate value for a field is a string of digits, the app should alert users as soon as they type a nondigit character. Verifying user input as your app receives it helps avoid errors caused by unexpected data. For a more complete discussion of when to check for errors and apply changes in text fields, see [Accepting](#page-153-0) and Applying User Input in a [Dialog](#page-153-0) (page 154).  
**Defer displaying a "required" icon next to a required field until users leave the context without handling it.** Preemptively displaying an asterisk or a custom icon next to each required text field and selection control can make your UI appear cluttered and unappealing. Instead, assume that users will fill in all the required fields; if they forget one, display an asterisk or custom icon next to the forgotten field when they attempt to exit the current context. This strategy helps you maintain an attractive UI, while at the same time helping you avoid treating users as if they were children.  
**Preserve users' privacy as they enter a password.** In this situation, each character the user types should appear as a bullet. If the user deletes a character with the Delete key, one bullet is deleted from the text field and the insertion point moves back one bullet, as if the bullet represented an actual character. Double-clicking bullets in a password field selects all the bullets, but does not allow them to be copied. When the user leaves the text field (by pressing Tab, for example), the number of bullets in the text field should be modified so that the field doesn't reflect the actual number of characters in the password.