<!-- Chunk 32 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1549 -->
People don't experience your app in isolation. The user experience of your app is affected by myriad system features and the way people configure the OS X environment. For example, people may want to use your app in fullscreen mode, switching to other apps in different spaces. Or people might use an app extension to perform an action related to the task they're accomplishing within your app. And some people may interact with your app using VoiceOver and an assistive input device.  
The better an app integrates with OS X features and technologies, the more people will feel that the app belongs in the system. To learn how to adopt specific features and technologies, read sections such as [App](#page-234-0) [Extensions](#page-234-0) (page 235), [iCloud](#page-248-0) (page 249), Game [Center](#page-257-0) (page 258), and [Notification](#page-242-0) Center (page 243).  
At a minimum, be sure to meet people's expectations by incorporating the items listed here.  
- **Embrace vibrancy.** Vibrancy is the sophisticated blending of foreground and background content that lets UI elements in Notification Center, window sidebars, menus, and popovers appear to absorb color from the content beneath them. Standard AppKit UI elements behave appropriately when they're in a vibrant context.
- To support vibrancy in a custom view, use the NSVisualEffectView class.
- **Respect the single menu bar and avoid putting menu bars in your app's windows.** OS X provides a single menu bar acrossthe top of the screen, which gives apps a consistent location to display commands. Learn more about how your app interacts with the menu bar in Menu Bar [Menus](#page-86-0) (page 87).
- **Integrate Spotlight.** Spotlight helps users find things anywhere in the system, using criteria they define. Be sure to supply a Spotlight importer if your app uses a custom file format, so that users can easily search for the files your app creates. To learn more about supporting Spotlight in your app, see [Spotlight](#page-280-0) (page 281).
- **Cooperate with the Dock to provide information and utility to users.** The Dock is an essential part of OS X and users expect it to behave according to their preferences. At the very least, your app must not interfere with the Dock's position on the screen. Learn more about the Dock in The [Dock](#page-255-0) (page 256).
- **Create high-quality icons.** Part of the allure of OS X is the abundance of beautiful, high-resolution, meticulously rendered icons, including app icons. To learn about designing these icons, see [Designing](#page-314-0) App [Icons](#page-314-0) (page 315), [Toolbar](#page-323-0) Items (page 324), and [Sidebar](#page-326-0) Icons (page 327).
- **Respect the multilayered window environment of OS X.** Be sure you know which types of windows your app should display and how they should look and behave (to start learning more,see About [Windows](#page-113-0) (page 114)).  
- **Support modelessness.** As much as possible, avoid forcing the user to complete the current task before they can do anything else. Use sheets and popoversto allow the user more freedom (for more information aboutsheets,see Using [Document-Modal](#page-151-0) Dialogs(Sheets) (page 152) and [Popover](#page-216-1) (page 217)). If you must use modes in your app, be sure to clearly communicate the current status and make it easy for users to get into and out of a mode.
- **Put the files your app creates in the proper locations.** OS X defines particular locations for app-specific files,such as preferences and user-created documents. Don't place files associated with your app in arbitrary locations because they will clutter the file system and users won't know where to look for them. For guidelines on how to interact with the file system, see *File System Overview*.
- **Support the multiuser environment and fast user switching.** OS X allows multiple users to use a single computer at the same time. With fast user switching, one user's login session is active while the sessions of other users continue to run in the background. In this multiuser environment, be sure to avoid relying on exclusive access to resources or assuming that there is only one instance of a per-user service running at any one time. For more information on how to supportfast userswitching,see *MultipleUser Environment Programming Topics*.
- **Support gestures.** Multi-Touch gestures in OS X let people use a trackpad to reveal Notification Center, switch to a different full-screen window or desktop, and show the desktop, among other things. For more information on supporting gestures in your app, see Gestures Can Enhance the User [Experience](#page-32-0) (page 33).
- **Use display names.** OS X lets users customize how file, directory, and app names are displayed. Be sure to respect the user's display name preference in your app (note that this also makes internationalization much easier). For more information about filename extensions, see [Interoperability](#page-25-0) (page 26).
- **Don't override the system-reserved keyboard shortcuts, and respecttheApple-recommended keyboard shortcuts.** Users don't generally distinguish between system-reserved and Apple-recommended keyboard shortcuts, but they tend to expect the shortcuts they know to enable specific behaviors regardless of the app they're using. To learn more about supporting the keyboard appropriately, see [Keyboard](#page-296-0) (page 297).
- **Support drag and drop.** Drag-and-drop functionality is ubiquitous in OS X, making it one of the most appreciated and well-known features of the platform. Although it's important to provide keyboard alternativesto drag-and-drop operations, it's essential to fully support this direct manipulation technology. To learn more about it, see Drag and [Drop](#page-288-0) (page 289).
- **Support the Clipboard.** Users rely on the Clipboard's contents remaining unchanged when they switch between apps. Be sure to support the Clipboard and implement cut, copy, and paste operations in your app. For more information on operations that access the Clipboard, see The Edit [Menu](#page-93-0) (page 94) and [The](#page-96-0) [Format](#page-96-0) Menu (page 97).