<!-- Chunk 27 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1152 -->
When it appears in the name of a button or a menu item, an ellipsis character (…) indicates to the user that additional information is required before the associated operation can be performed. Specifically, it prepares the user to expect the appearance of a window or dialog in which to make selections or enter information before the command executes.  
Because users expect instant action from buttons and menu items, it's important to prepare them for this different behavior by appropriately displaying the ellipsis character. Use the guidelines and examples here to help you decide when to use an ellipsis in menu item and button names.  
#### **Use an ellipsis in the name of a button or menu item when the associated action:**  
- Requires specific input from the user.
- For example, the Open, Find, and Print commands all use an ellipsis because the user must select or input the item to open, find, or print.
- You can think of commands of thistype as needing the answer to a specific question (such as"Find what?") before executing.
- Is performed by the user in a separate window or dialog.
- For example, Preferences, Customize Toolbar, and App Store all use an ellipsis because they open a window or dialog in which the user sets preferences, customizes the toolbar, or shops for new apps.
- To see why such commands must include an ellipsis, consider that the absence of an ellipsis implies that the app performsthe action for the user. For example, if the Customize Toolbar command does not include an ellipsis, it implies that there is only one way to customize the toolbar and the user has no choice in the matter.
- *Always* displays an alert that warns the user of a potentially dangerous outcome and offers an alternative. For example, Restart, Shut Down, and Log Out all use an ellipsis because they always display an alert that asks the user for confirmation and allows the user to cancel the action. Note that Close does not have an ellipsis because it displays an alert only in certain circumstances (specifically, only when the document or file being closed has unsaved changes).
- Before you consider providing a command that always displays an alert, determine if it's really necessary to get the user's approval every time. Displaying too many alerts asking for user confirmation can dilute the effectiveness of alerts.  
#### **Don't use an ellipsis in the name of a button or menu item when the associated action:**  
- Does not require specific input from the user.
- For example, the New, Save a Version, and Duplicate commands don't use an ellipsis because either the user has already provided the necessary information or no user input is required. That is, New always opens a new document or window, Save a Version saves a snapshot of the current document, and Duplicate creates a new copy of the current document.
- Is completed by the opening of a panel.  
A user opens a panel to view information about an item or to keep essential, task-oriented controls available at all times. A command to open a panel, therefore, is completed by the display of the window and should not have an ellipsis in its name. Examples of such commands are Get Info, About This App, and Show Inspector. To learn more about panels, see [Panels](#page-144-0) (page 145).  
● *Occasionally* displays an alert that warns the user of a potentially dangerous outcome.  
If you use an ellipsis in the name of a button or menu item that only sometimes displays an alert, you cause the user to expect something that will not always happen. This makes your app's user interface inconsistent and confusing. For example, even though Close displays an alert if the user has never named the current document, it does not display an alert at other times, and so it does not include an ellipsis.  
An ellipsis character can also show that there is more text than there is room to display in a document title or list item. In general, it's best to use an ellipsis to take the place of text in the middle of a title or name, because this preserves the beginning and end of the text, which tend to be the most recognizable parts.  
**Important:** Be sure to create the ellipsis character using the key combination Option-; (Option-semicolon). This ensures that an assistive app can provide the correct interpretation of the character to a disabled user. If you use three period characters to simulate an ellipsis, many assistive apps will be unable to make sense of them. Also, three period characters and an ellipsis don't look the same because the periods are spaced differently than the points of an ellipsis.