<!-- Chunk 186 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 404 -->
If you don't have an existing set of icon resources, the following tips can help you create standard- and high-resolution versions of your app icon.  
**Start with a large master art file and scale it down to the smaller sizes.** It's especially useful to create your master image in a dimension that's a multiple of the icon sizes you need. For example, to create icons in the recommended sizes listed in [Table](#page-319-0) 71-1 (page 320), first create a 1024 x 1024 pixel version of your master file.  
**Use an appropriate grid size.** As you create the master image, using a grid ensures that you get sharp lines on important pieces of the design, such as the outline. As you scale down, you'll be able to keep each smaller icon version crisp, and reduce the amount of retouching and sharpening you need to do.  
In your image-editing app, set up an 8-pixel grid, which means each block in the grid measures 8 x 8 pixels and represents 1 pixel in the 128 x 128 pixel icon. As you create your master file, "snap" the image to the grid and keep it within the boundaries to minimize the half pixels and blurry details that can result when you scale it down.  
<span id="page-320-1"></span>**Redraw art as you scale down.** If you're not satisfied with the results when you scale down art to the 32 x 32 pixel and 16 x 16 pixel sizes, redraw the image at these sizes instead. If you decide to do this, setting up the proper grid can still help reduce extra work. For example, using a 32-pixel grid works well for creating the 32 x 32 pixel size, and a 64-pixel grid works well for creating the 16 x 16 pixel size.