<!-- Chunk 42 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 513 -->
Different people interact with apps in different ways, depending on personal preference and circumstance. Because you can't predict exactly how users will use your app, it's a good idea to offer a few different ways to perform each task.  
**Support accessibility.** All apps should be accessible to people with disabilities and those who might use assistive devices to interact with their computer. As much as possible, make sure that every action users can take in your app can also be taken using VoiceOver or an assistive device. For more guidelines related to accessibility concerns, see "Reach as Many Users as [Possible"](#page-57-0) (page 58).  
**Make app commands available in menus.** The menu bar is the first place people tend to look for commands, especially when they're new to an app. It's a good idea to list all important commands in the appropriate app menus so that people can find them easily. It can be appropriate to omit infrequently used or power-user commands from your app's menus (instead making them available in a contextual menu, for example), but you should be wary of doing thistoo often. Even experienced users can fail to find commandsthat are essentially hidden in this way. To learn more about providing menusin your app,see "UI Element [Guidelines:](#page-129-0) Menus" (page 130).  
**Provide keyboard-only alternatives.** Many people prefer using a keyboard to using a mouse or a trackpad. Others, such as VoiceOver users, need to use the keyboard. There are two main ways to support keyboard users:  
- Respect the standard keyboard shortcuts and create app-specific shortcutsfor frequently used commands. (For guidelines on how to do this,see "Provide Keyboard [Shortcutsfor](#page-63-0) Frequently Used Commands" (page 64).)
- Add support for full keyboard access mode to all your custom UI elements. Full keyboard access mode allows usersto navigate and activate windows, menus, UI elements, and system features using the keyboard alone. To learn more about this mode, see "Accessibility Keyboard Shortcuts".