<!-- Chunk 39 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 835 -->
A trackpad gives users another way to move the pointer and activate UI elements. OS X includes support for Multi-Touch gestures, which allow usersto perform actionssuch asreveal Mission Control,switch to a different full-screen window or desktop, and return to the previous page in an app. Users expect to be able to use these familiar gestures throughout the system and the apps they download. Follow the guidelines in this section so that you can provide a great Multi-Touch gesture experience in your app.  
**Pay attention to the meaning of a gesture, not to the physical movements users make.** In other words, instead of preparing to respond to a three-finger swipe, be prepared to respond to a "go to the previous page" gesture. Users can also change the physical movements that perform the system-supported actions, so your app should listen to the gesture the system reports.  
**As much as possible, respond to gestures in a way that's consistent with other apps on the platform.** For the most part, users expect gesturesto work the same regardless of the app they're currently using. For example, users should be able to use the "go back" gesture whether the app displays content in document pages, webpages, or images.  
It's especially important to avoid redefining the systemwide, inter-app gestures, such as reveal Mission Control and switch between desktops and spaces. (Note that users can change the precise gesturesthat perform these actions in Trackpad system preferences.) Even when users are playing a game that might use app-specific gestures in a custom way, they expect to be able to reveal Mission Control or switch to another desktop or full-screen window.  
**Handle gestures as responsively as possible.** Gesturesshould heighten the user'ssense of direct manipulation and provide immediate, live feedback. To achieve this, aim to perform relatively inexpensive operations for the duration of the gesture.  
**Ensure that gestures apply to UI elements of the appropriate granularity.** In general, gestures are most effective when they target a specific object or view in a window, because such views are usually the focus of the user's attention. Start by identifying the most specific object or view the user is likely to manipulate and make it the target of a gesture. Make a higher level or containing object a gesture target only if it makes sense in your app.  
OS X 10.8 supports a smart zoom gesture (that is, a two-finger double-tap on a trackpad). By providing a semantic layout of your content, NSScrollView can intelligently magnify the content that the user is most likely interested in. See *NSScrollView Class Reference* for more information.  
**Define custom gestures cautiously.** A custom gesture can be difficult for users to discover and remember. And, if a custom gesture seems gratuitous or awkward to perform, users are likely to avoid using it. If you feel you must define a custom gesture, be sure to make it easy to perform and not too similar to the gestures users already know.  
<span id="page-43-0"></span>**Avoid relying on the availability of a specific gesture as the only way to perform an action.** You can't be sure that all your users have a trackpad or want to use it. In addition, trackpad users can disable some gestures, or change their meaning, in Trackpad preferences.