<!-- Chunk 28 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 451 -->
Consistency in the interface allows users to transfer their knowledge and skills from one app to another. Use the standard elements of the Aqua interface to ensure consistency within your app and to benefit from consistency across apps. Ask yourself the following questions when thinking about consistency in your product:  
- **Is it consistent with OS X standards?** For example, does the app use the reserved and recommended keyboard equivalents(see ["Keyboard](#page-307-0) Shortcuts" (page 308)) for their correct purposes?Isit Aqua-compliant? Does it use the solutions to standard tasks OS X provides? (For more information on these solutions, see "OS X [Technology](#page-64-0) Usage Guidelines" (page 65).)
- **Is it consistent within itself?** Does it use consistent terminology for labels and features? Do icons mean the same thing every time they are used? Are concepts presented in similar ways across all modules? Are similar controls and other user interface elements located in similar places in windows and dialogs?
- **Is it consistent with earlier versions of the product?** Have the terms and meanings remained the same between releases? Are the fundamental concepts essentially unchanged?
- **Is it consistent with people's expectations?** Does it meet the needs of the user without extraneous features? Does it conform to the user's mental model? (For more information on this concept, see ["Mental](#page-26-2) [Model"](#page-26-2) (page 27).)  
<span id="page-32-1"></span>Meeting everyone's expectations is the most difficult kind of consistency to achieve, especially if your product is likely to be used by an audience with a wide range of expertise. You can address this problem by carefully weighing the consistency issues in the context of your target audience and their needs.