<!-- Chunk 34 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 829 -->
It's worth emphasizing an obvious fact: Users view your app differently than you do. Nowhere is this difference more striking than in the performance of common app-management tasks, such as finding and opening documents, opening and closing windows, and managing document state. Although there are many ways that apps can make such tasks easier for users to perform, a more important question is, Why should users have to perform them at all?  
Take this opportunity to step back and reconsider the division of labor between users and apps. For example, if your app is a single-window app that does not perform background tasks, do users really need to explicitly quit your app after they close the window? In fact, should users care whether your app is currently running if its window is either closed or on a different desktop? In OS X, users can turn off the open-app indicator lights in the Dock so that when they click a Dock icon, they don't need to know whether the app is starting or simply bringing an open window into view. When this experience is combined with Resume, users don't need to differentiate between the app opening experience and the window opening experience.  
Changes in how users view the state and location of their content should prompt you to begin thinking about how your app presents the tasks that are related to these concepts. As you consider these issues, you should also follow the guidelines in this section to ensure that your app provides an experience that users appreciate.  
**As much as possible, restore the user's previous state.** Users should not have to remember which windows were open (and which were full screen) when they log in or start their computer. For the best user experience, opt into the Resume feature so that users can pick up where they left off in your app. To learn more about how to take to take advantage of Resume in your app, see "Resume" in *Mac Technology Overview*.  
**Support Auto Save and Versions, if appropriate.** Users expect their content to be saved continuously and mostly without their intervention. If users can create documents in your app, be sure to opt in to Auto Save so that they can rely on these behaviors in your app. (To learn more about how these technologies should work in your app, see "Auto Save and [Versions"](#page-101-0) (page 102).)  
**Consider using iCloud storage to help users access their content on all of their devices.** For some tips on how to provide a great iCloud experience in your app, see "iCloud [Storage"](#page-70-1) (page 71).  
**Decide whether users need to explicitly quit your app.** In particular, if your app displays only a single window it's often appropriate to quit automatically when users close the window.  
**Avoid calling attention to file formats.** It's best when users don't have to think about file formats (recall that users can turn off the display of filename extensions in Finder preferences). In addition, users tend to expect to be able to open other documents in your app and to share with others the documents they create in your app. Be sure to include a filename extension appropriate to the contents of the document. At the same time, take care to respect the user'sfilename extension preferences when displaying the names of files and documents within your app.