<!-- Chunk 56 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 491 -->
OS X provides many UI elements that you can use to enable a wide range of actions in your app. Users are comfortable with these elements and they appreciate finding them in new apps, because they already know how to use them. In rare cases, however, your app might need to enable an action for which there is no Aqua element. If you need to design a custom UI element, follow the guidelines in this section.  
**Important:** A custom UI element does not receive automatic updates if Aqua changes in the future. When you create a custom UI element, you must also accept the responsibility for revising it appropriately when Aqua changes.  
**Don't assign new behaviors to standard UI elements.** It's better to create a custom element than to change the behavior of a familiar Aqua element. If UI elements behave differently in different situations, the interface becomes unpredictable and harder for users to figure out.  
**Don't create a custom UI element that looks or behaves like an Aqua UI element.** If your custom element looks too much like an Aqua element users might not notice the difference, and they will be confused when it does not behave as they expect. Similarly, if your custom element behaves the same way an Aqua element behaves, users will wonder what, if anything, is different about the custom element.  
**Make sure your custom UI element enhances the usability of your app.** A custom UI elementshould provide users with a unique benefit that is difficult to achieve in any other way. If a new UI element doesn't help users, they're likely to feel that they wasted the time they spent learning about it.  
<span id="page-62-1"></span>**Avoid replicating a UI element from another platform.** Users aren't necessarily familiar with other platforms, so you can't assume that they recognize nonAqua UI elements. It's better to design a new UI element that coordinates with the design of your app and that supplies the precise behavior you need.