<!-- Chunk 58 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 487 -->
Keyboard shortcuts are combinations of two or more keys that users can press to initiate certain actions. OS X reserves several keyboard shortcuts to support both general usability needs and accessibility needs. For example, Command-Space reveals the Spotlight search bar, and Command-Option-8 turns zoom on or off.  
In addition to the system-reserved shortcuts, several keyboard shortcuts are so commonly used for specific actions that users expect them to be available in most apps. And, when users enable full keyboard access mode, other key combinations may be reserved by default.  
**Don't override the system-reserved keyboard shortcuts.** Users expect these shortcuts to work regardless of the app they're currently using. You'll find a list of these shortcuts (each marked with the symbol) in [Table](#page-309-0) [A-2](#page-309-0) (page 310).  
**Avoid overriding the standard keyboard shortcuts users are familiar with.** Users expect these shortcuts to mean the same thing in each app they use. The standard shortcuts are also listed in [Table](#page-309-0) A-2 (page 310) (they are *not* marked with the symbol).  
In rare cases, it can be acceptable to redefine a common keyboard shortcut. For example, if users spend the majority of their time in your app, it can make sense to redefine shortcuts that don't apply to the tasks your app enables. Or, if most of your users have used your app on a different platform, you might not want to change the keyboard shortcuts they already know.  
**Don't feel that you must create a shortcut for every command in your app.** If you try to do this, you'll probably end up with some shortcutsthat are unintuitive, hard to remember, and physically difficult to perform. Instead, identify the most frequently used commandsin your app and create logicalshortcutsfor them. Examine [Table](#page-309-0) A-2 (page 310) for characters and combinations that are not reserved by OS X or commonly used.