<!-- Chunk 9 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 675 -->
OS X is founded on the understanding that people use computers to create and experience the content they care about. On a Mac, people are free to focus on their content because OS X performs many of the routine app-management tasks that users shouldn't have to handle. As you consider how your app fits into the OS X environment, it's instructive to see how this perspective pervades every ingredient of the Mac experience.  
OS X includes many features that relieve users of common app-management tasks. These features instead help them concentrate on the tasks they want to accomplish. For example, popovers appear when users need them and disappear when users are finished with them (in effect, popovers manage themselves). Another example is the fact that Launchpad and the Dock don't need to show whether an app is currently running. When users click an app's icon in Launchpad or the Dock, a window opens; users don't need to know whether the app started or simply brought a window into view.  
Many OS X features (such as iCloud, Auto Save, and Resume) help users avoid two of the most frequent app-management tasks: saving a document and reopening windows that were open the last time an app was running.  
**iCloud** frees users from worrying about where their content is stored. They can access their content from multiple devices through different instances of your app. With iCloud, users make changes to a document and can view those changes on another device without transferring files.  
**Auto Save** and **Versions** make document saving and version control easy for users. After users title a new document and give it a location, they don't have to worry about explicitly saving it when they make changes because Auto Save keeps the working document up to date. In addition, users can save specific versions of  
their work for later reference. Document-based apps can use Versions to display a Time Machine–like interface in which users can browse their earlier document versions and, if they choose, replace the current document with a different version.  
**Resume** allows apps to reopen in the same state in which users left them. After restart or log in, OS X automatically relaunches the apps that were last running and restores the windows that were last opened. When an app provides the necessary support, reopened windows have the same size and location as before; in addition, their contents are scrolled to the previous position and their selections are restored.  
To learn more about enhancing the user experience of your app by rethinking the some of the tasks that users typically perform, see "Avoid Burdening Users with [App-Management](#page-35-1) Tasks" (page 36).