<!-- Chunk 101 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 404 -->
In addition to the system-provided menus, such as File and Window, most apps provide a few app-specific menus to display in the menu bar so that users have access to useful commands. Users choose which menu to open based on the menu's title, so it's important to make your menu titles accurate and informative. Note that contextual and Dock menus don't need titles because users open these menus after focusing on a selection or an area in a window or by choosing an app in the Dock.  
Follow these guidelines as you create titles for your menus.  
**Use menu titles that accurately represent the items in the menu.** Users should be able to use a menu's title to predict the types of items they'll find in the menu. For example, users would expect a Font menu to contain names of font families,such as Helvetica and Geneva, but they wouldn't expect it to include editing commands, such as Cut and Paste.  
**Make menu titles as short as possible without sacrificing clarity.** One-word menu titles are best because they take up very little space in the menu bar and they're easy for users to scan.  
**Avoid using an icon for a menu title.** You don't want users to confuse a menu-title icon with a menu bar extra. Also, it's not acceptable to mix text and icons in menu bar menu titles.  
**Ensure that a menu's title is undimmed even when all of the menu's commands are unavailable.** Users should always be able to view a menu's contents, whether or not they are currently available. Ensuring that your menu items are always visible (even when they are not available) helps users learn what they can do in your app.