<!-- Chunk 122 | Source: 1986-12 Human Interface Guidelines (Final Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 455 -->
Different colors have standard associations in different cultures. "Meanings" of colors usually have nothing to do with the wavelength of the color, but are learned through conditioning within a particular culture. Some of the most universal meanings for colors are:  
- Red: Stop, error, or failure. (For disk drives, red also means disk access in progress; don't remove the disk or turn it off.).
- Yellow: Warning, caution, or delay.
- Green: Go, ready, or power on.
- Warm vs. cold: Reds, oranges, and yellows are perceived as hot or exciting colors; blues and greens are cool, calm colors.  
Colors often have additional standard meanings within a particular discipline: in the financial world, red means loss and black means gain. To a mapmaker, green means wooded areas, blue means water, yellow means deserts. In an application for a specific field, you can take advantage of these meanings; in a general application, you should allow users to change the colors, and to turn off any color-coding that you use as a default. Having more than one color coding scheme in effect at any one time can be very confusing.  
For attracting the user's attention, orange and red are more effective than other colors, but usually connote "warning" or "danger". (Be aware, though, that in some cases, attracting the eye might not be what you want to do; for example, if "dangerous" menu items are colored red, the user's eye will be  
attracted to the red items, and the user might be *more* likely to select the items by mistake.)  
Although the screen may be able to display 256 or more colors, the human eye can discriminate only around 128 pure hues. Furthermore, when colors are used to signify information, studies have shown that the mind can only effectively follow four to seven color assignments on a screen at once.