<!-- Chunk 86 | Source: 1986-12 Human Interface Guidelines (Final Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 522 -->
Modifier keys are those that alter the way other keystrokes are interpreted. They are the Shift, Option, Caps Lock, Control, and Apple (or Command) keys. Not all Apple keyboards contain all of these keys. These keys sometimes affect the way the mouse button is interpreted as well. It is important that you use these keys consistently from program to program, as outlined in these guidelines.  
#### **Shift**  
The Shift key, when used together with another character key, produces the uppercase letter on alphabetic keys, or the upper character on two-character keys. The Shift key is also used in conjunction with the mouse for extending a selection. (See "Selecting" in this chapter.)  
#### Caps Lock  
The Caps Lock key latches in the down position when pressed, and releases when pressed again. When down it gives the uppercase letter on alphabetic keys. Caps Lock has the same effect on alphabetic keys that the Shift key has, but Caps Lock has no effect on any other keys. In other words: even when Caps Lock is down, the user must press the Shift key to produce the uppercase characters (#, etc) on the non-alphabetic keys  
#### Option  
The Option key, when used together with other keys produces a set of international characters and special symbols. For example, in many Macintosh fonts, Option-4 produces the ¢ symbol, Option-r produces ®, and Option-g produces ©. Shift and Option can be used together, in combination with a character key, to produce yet other symbols—for example, Option-Shift-? to produce the Spanish ¿ character.  
#### The Apple or Command key  
The Apple key is labeled on different computers with an Apple symbol, a cloverleaf symbol, or both. It has also been known as the Command key or Open Apple key. Pressing a character key while holding down the Apple key usually tells the application to interpret the key as a command, not as a character. In some applications, the Apple key is used with other keys to provide special functions or shortcuts—for example, pressing Apple-Shift-3 on a Macintosh saves, on disk, a snapshot of the current screen.