<!-- Chunk 112 | Source: 1986-12 Human Interface Guidelines (Final Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 638 -->
This section is specific to the Macintosh family of computers. For full details, see *Inside Macintosh*.  
The Macintosh Resource Manager allows the separation of code and data. Data (in the form of resources) can be edited with a number of tools such as REdit and ResEdit. Changing the appropriate resources lets you change the appearance of an application (dialog boxes, messages, menus, and so on) without rebuilding the application code. Always use the Macintosh's international resources where applicable.  
#### Text  
For legibility, some non-Roman characters need higher resolution than Roman characters. On the Japanese Macintosh Plus, for example, the system font must be larger than normal: it must allow for 16-by-16 pixel characters. The Macintosh Plus ROM sets the system font size and family according to low-memory variables. For example, it is possible to specify text in dialogs and menu bars to 14-point New York. Applications should not change the system font or font size: let the user (or the system, where that is possible) make such changes. Applications can use SysFontSize to get the default font size to use for their text.  
#### Line spacing  
Most Roman fonts for the Macintosh have space above all the letters to allow for diacritical marks as with Ä or Ñ. If text is drawn using a standard font immediately below a dark line, for example, it will appear to be separated from the line by at least one row of blank pixels (for all but a few exceptional characters). Pixels in some non-Roman fonts, on the other hand, can extend to the top of the character, and appear to merge with the preceding line. To avoid character display overlap, applications should leave blank space around text (as in dialog editText items) or add space before the first line of text and after the last line of text, as well as between lines of text.  
#### Font selection  
The choice of script (or alphabet: Roman, Kanji, Arabic, and so on) depends on the fonts chosen by the user. If an application does not allow the user to change fonts, or allows the user only to select a global font for the whole document, then the user is restricted in the choice and mix of scripts.  
#### Uppercase and lowercase  
If text must be displayed either uppercase or lowercase, the application should call the Transliterate routine (in the Script Manager) to perform the operation. The UprString routine in the Macintosh ROM is designed to be used by the File system and as such does not handle diacritical marks or non-Roman scripts correctly.  
#### Menus