<!-- Chunk 21 | Source: 1986-12 Human Interface Guidelines (Final Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 639 -->
Applications are prepared for the user to do anything at any time.  
The event loop is central to programming for the Apple Desktop Interface. The event loop is the central routine of any application. An application doesn't have to expect a certain set of events in a particular order, but constantly looks for inputs (mouse actions, keystrokes, disk insertions) that can occur in any order and to which it must respond in specific ways.  
This approach to programming contrasts with programs that systematically limit the alternatives available to the user, assuring that the user follows the "right" path to the "right" place. Instead, the emphasis is on responding to each local request the user makes, leaving the responsibility for the final destination with the user. In each context, the widest possible range of user activities should be enabled. For example, there's no reason not to let the user set printing options before there's anything to print.  
#### Reversible actions  
Always provide a way out.  
Because the Apple Desktop Interface encourages users to be active, they often request something they don't really want. To encourage such deliberate (though often unplanned) activities and to give users a sense of control of these activities, programmers should make actions reversible whenever possible. Users should, for example, be able to cancel activities easily, particularly those that are unexpectedly involved. They should also have a range of deliberate choices to confirm that they do want to do something particularly drastic, complex, or time-consuming.  
#### The screen  
The screen is the stage for human-computer interactions.  
In many computer systems, most of the activity is invisible. Users make inputs, to which the computer returns elaborate responses after some amount of calculation. The screen then becomes the "mail slot" in which exchanges between the user and the computer system takes place.  
In the Apple Desktop Interface, the screen displays a representation of the "world" that the computer creates for the user. On this screen is played out the full range of human-computer interactions. Initially, it provides the alternatives, then it reflects the results of requested activities, then it again shows the alternatives, and so on. And it does this in an extremely well-defined way.  
Though the screen is itself not the interface—the functionality provided by the interface elements is the interface—the screen does play a central role, and managing it is one of the programmer's most important tasks.