<!-- Chunk 61 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 855 -->
In applications that handle or display a lot of data, search can be a primary function. If you need to provide search in your application, follow these guidelines to ensure that it performs well.  
**Build indexes of your data so that you are always prepared for search**. Don't wait until the user initiates a search to do this, because you can't afford to create a negative first impression of the search experience in your application.  
**Live-filter local data so that you can display results more quickly**. It's best when you can begin filtering as soon as users begin typing, and narrow the results asthey continue typing. Although live-filtering data usually produces a superior user experience, it's not always practical. When live filtering is impractical, you can begin the search process after the user taps the Search button in the keyboard. If you do this, be sure to provide feedback on the search's progress so users know that the process has not stalled.  
**When possible, also filter remote data while users type**. Although filtering users' typing can result in a better search experience, be sure to inform them and give them an opportunity to opt out if the response time is likely to delay the results by more than a second or two.  
**Display a search bar above a list or the index in a list**. Users expect to find a search bar in this position, because they're accustomed to the search bar in Contacts and other applications. Putting the search bar in this location means that it stays out of users' way when they're scrolling through the list or using the index, but is conveniently available when it's needed.  
**Use a tab for search only in special circumstances**. If search is a primary function in your application you might want to feature it as a distinct mode. In iTunes, for example, finding and getting music and podcasts is the focus of the application. Users want to search for their favorite songs, artists, or podcasts regardless of the mode they're currently in, so it makes sense to offer a dedicated search tab that's always available.  
**If necessary, display placeholder content right away and partial results as they become available**. In this way, you give users useful information promptly. In YouTube, for example, users initiate a search for videos by tapping the Search button. If the network connection isslow, YouTube first displaysthe Loading... message along with a spinning activity indicator so that users know that search is proceeding. Then, YouTube displays a results list in which each row is populated with textual results, such as video title and viewer rating, and a custom image of a box with a dotted outline. As users scan the list of video titles, the video thumbnails replace the dotted boxes as they are downloaded.  
**Consider providing a scope bar if the data sorts naturally into different categories**. A **scope bar** allows usersto specify locations or rulesin a search or to filter objects by specific criteria. It contains up to fourscope buttons, each representing a category. For example, Mail provides a scope bar that allows users to focus their search on the From, To, or Subject fields of messages, or broaden the search to include all fields. Providing a scope bar helps users focus their search and can significantly reduce the number of results. To learn more about using a scope bar, see ["Scope](#page-130-0) Bar" (page 131).