<!-- Chunk 173 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 415 -->
A search bar looks like a text field with rounded ends. By default, a search bar displays the search icon on the left side. When the user taps a search bar, a keyboard appears; when the user is finished typing search terms, the input is handled in an application-specific way.  
In addition, a search bar can display a few optional elements:  
- **Placeholder** text. Thistext mightstate the function of the control (for example, "Search") or remind users in what context they are searching (for example, "YouTube" or "Google").
- The **Bookmarks** button. This button can provide a shortcut to information users want to easily find again. For example, the Bookmarks button in the Maps search mode gives access to bookmarked locations, recent searches, and contacts.  
The Bookmarks button is visible only when there is no user-supplied or nonplaceholder text in the search bar, because the Clear button is visible when there is text in the search bar that users might want to erase.  
- The **Clear** button. Most search bars include a Clear button that allows users to erase the contents of the search bar with one tap. (The Clear button is a gray circle with a white "x" in it.)
- When the search bar contains any nonplaceholder text, the Clear button is visible so users can erase the text. If there is no user-supplied or nonplaceholder text in the search bar, the Clear button is hidden because there is no need to erase the contents of the search bar.
- A descriptive title, called a **prompt**, that appears above the search bar. For example, a prompt can be a short phrase that provides introductory or application-specific context for the search bar.