<!-- Chunk 84 | Source: 1987 Apple Human Interface Guidelines - The Apple Desktop Interface.pdf | Est. Tokens: 706 -->
Modifier keys are those that alter the way other keystrokes are interpreted. These keys sometimes affect the way the mouse button is interpreted as well. They are the Shift, Caps Lock, Option, Control, and Apple (or Command) keys. Not all Apple keyboards contain all of these keys. It is important that you use these keys consistently from program to program, as outlined in these guidelines.  
#### Shift  
The Shift key, when used together with another character key, produces the uppercase letter on alphabetic keys, or the upper character on two-character keys. The Shift key is also used in conjunction with the mouse for extending a selection (see "Selecting" in this chapter) or for constraining movement in graphics applications—for example, in MacPaint, holding down the Shift key while using the rectangle tool limits the tool to drawing squares.  
#### Caps Lock  
The Caps Lock key latches in the down position when pressed, and releases when pressed again. When down it gives the uppercase letter on alphabetic keys. Caps Lock has the same effect on alphabetic keys that the Shift key has, but Caps Lock has no effect on any other keys. In other words, even when Caps Lock is down, the user must press the Shift key to produce the uppercase characters (#, ?, and so on) on the nonalphabetic keys.  
#### Option  
The Option key, when used together with other keys, produces <sup>a</sup> set of international characters and special symbols. For example, in many Macintosh fonts, Option-4 produces the <t symbol, Option-r produces ®, and Option-g produces ©. Shift and Option can be used together, in combination with a character key, to produce yet other symbols—for example, Option-Shift-? to produce the Spanish ,; character. The Key Caps desk accessory lets the user preview these combinations in all available fonts. The Option key can also be used in conjunction with the mouse to modify the effect of a click or drag.  
#### The Apple (or Command) key  
The Apple key islabeled on different computers with an Apple symbol, a cloverleaf symbol, or both. It has also been known as the Command key or Open Apple key. Pressing <sup>a</sup> character key while holding down the Apple key usually tells the application to interpret the key as a command, not as a character. In some applications, the Apple key is used with other keys to provide special functions or shortcuts—for example, pressing Apple-Shift-3 on a Macintosh saves, on disk, a snapshot of the current screen. The Apple (or Command) key can also be used in conjunction with the mouse to modify the effect of a click or drag.  
#### The Control key  
The Control key is used with terminal-emulation programs for control-key sequences. For all other applications, it is reserved for end-user-defined shortcut key sequences using a macro-key facility.