<!-- Chunk 24 | Source: 1987 Apple Human Interface Guidelines - The Apple Desktop Interface.pdf | Est. Tokens: 566 -->
Computers hold tremendous promise for people with many kinds of disabilities. In terms of increasing productivity and mobility, computers can have a far greater impact on disabled people than on other users. But too often, computers become obstacles rather than enablers, because many disabilities make it hard to use standard computers and software. In most cases, thoughtful hardware design is the solution, but there are things that software designers can do, too.  
Many of the modifications that make programs easier for disabled people to use are simple and inexpensive to make, and they often have a welcome and unexpected side effect—the programs are easier for everyone to use. Although sidewalk curb cuts are designed to help people who rely on crutches or wheelchairs, they are used and appreciated almost as much by skateboarders and stroller-pushers.  
This section describes some of the ways you can design with disabled users in mind. For more information, contact Apple's Office of Special Education Programs.  
#### Vision disabilities  
People with vision problems have the most trouble with the output display. The ability of the Macintosh to handle different sizes of text makes it easy to accommodate the needs of many people with vision problems. Software can be designed with <sup>a</sup> "zoom" feature that automatically increases the size of characters on the screen.  
Color is <sup>a</sup> problem for many people. Don't let people's ability to use your software depend on their ability to distinguish one color from another. Be sure that all information conveyed by color coding is also presented in some other way (by text, position, or highlighting).  
Many people have difficulty using the instruction manuals that usually accompany software products, either because they have difficulty reading small print or because they physically can't handle books. These people appreciate having at least the most important part of the manual's text available in electronic form, so that they can display or print it in oversize characters, print it with a Braille printer, or have it read to them through a speech synthesizer. All users benefit from manuals in electronic form, which can quickly be searched for specific topics and keywords.