<!-- Chunk 23 | Source: 1986-07 Human Interface Guidelines (Second Beta Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 582 -->
In traditional programming, the visual appearance of the screen is somewhat arbitrary, and often a relatively low priority. In contrast, applications using the Apple Desktop Interface require a very high precision in visual layout and the definition of elements. It is the screen display that carries most of the information in this interface.  
Programmers have excellent tools to meet this requirement—including fonts, graphic display routines, and tools such as pull—down menus, scroll bars, and so on—but substantial visual planning is still required. Distinguish different objects visually on the screen. Consider the customizing the user may do. And be sure each display makes sense as a whole.  
#### User Initiation  
Programmers are often tempted to take care of many details for the user, keeping the user unaware of much that is going on, and often completing actions on the user's behalf. The concept of user control does not allow this. Though the user doesn't need to know all about the code or the functioning of the hardware, the user does require a functional description. The user makes decisions, not the system. This concept is also pragmatic, given the general approach of programming for this environment: because the user, at any given moment, is selecting from a wide range of actions, it is usually not possible for the system to determine just what is "best" for the user.  
#### Reversible Actions  
Because the Apple Desktop Interface encourages exploration, users can very easily choose a path they didn't really intend to take. This is all right, unless the results are so unpleasant that users regret their exploration and hesitate to do it again. For this reason, almost everything the user does can be reversed. If a user starts to print a document, then decides against it, he can stop the printer. If a user moves an icon from one place to another, then decides it belongs somewhere else, she can move it again.  
When users initiate operations that can't be reversed, the program should explicitly tell them that and give them the opportunity to back out. For example, if I indicate that I want to replace one document with another, ask me to confirm the request before it's carried out. When I quit working on a document, ask me if I want to incorporate the changes made since the last save.