<!-- Chunk 90 | Source: 1997 Mac OS 8 Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 428 -->
Each of the standard menus should contain specific items.  
Control panels should have an About *Control Panel Name* command as the first item in the Apple menu. This command opens the control panel's About box. See ["The About Box" \(page 126\)](#page-125-0) for more information.  
The File menu should always include a Close Window (Command-W) command. Closing the control panel window quits the application. The final command of the File menu should always be Quit (Command-Q). This command is always preceded by a separator line, even if the only other command is Close Window.  
If the control panel requires an explicit save action and it saves settings globally, then the File menu should include Save Settings (Command-S) and Revert to Saved Settings commands. For more information, see ["Settings"](#page-121-0)  [\(page 122\)](#page-121-0).  
The Edit menu should include an Undo (Command-Z) command that operates on as many controls as possible, including any Save and Revert buttons. The Undo command is followed by a separator line.  
If the control panel includes any edit text fields, then the Edit menu should also include Cut (Command-X), Copy (Command-C), Paste (Command-V), and Clear commands. The Edit menu should also include Select All (Command-A) if appropriate.  
In the unlikely event that a control panel has enough preference settings to justify placing them in their own dialog, the preferred mechanism for accessing them is through an push button in the control panel window. However, if the window cannot accommodate such a button, then a Preferences command may be used instead. This command is always the last item in the Edit menu, and it is always preceded by a separator line.