<!-- Chunk 35 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 493 -->
Consistency in the interface allows users to transfer their knowledge and skills from one application to another. Use the standard elements of the Aqua interface to ensure consistency within your application and to benefit from consistency across applications. Ask yourself the following questions when thinking about consistency in your product:  
- **Is it consistent with Mac OS X standards?** For example, does the application use the reserved and recommended keyboard equivalents (see "Keyboard Shortcuts Quick [Reference"](#page-370-0) (page 371)) for their correct purposes? Is it Aqua-compliant? Does it use the solutions to standard tasks Mac OS X provides? (For more information on these solutions, see ["Using](#page-68-0) Mac OS X [Technologies"](#page-68-0) (page 69).)
- **Is it consistent within itself?** Does it use consistent terminologyfor labels and features? Do icons mean the same thing every time they are used? Are concepts presented in similar ways across all modules? Are similar controls and other user interface elements located in similar places in windows and dialogs?
- **Is it consistent with earlier versions of the product?** Have the terms and meanings remained the same between releases? Are the fundamental concepts essentially unchanged?
- **Is it consistent with people's expectations?** Does it meet the needs of the userwithout extraneous features? Does it conform to the user's mental model? (For more information on this concept, see ["Reflect](#page-41-0) the User's Mental Model" (page 42).)  
<span id="page-45-1"></span>Meetingeveryone's expectations is the most difficultkind of consistencyto achieve, especiallyifyour product is likely to be used by an audience with a wide range of expertise. You can address this problem by carefully weighing the consistency issues in the context of your target audience and their needs. See "Know Your [Audience"](#page-26-2) (page 27) for more information on how to define your audience.