<!-- Chunk 230 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 529 -->
<span id="page-238-7"></span><span id="page-238-5"></span>Mac OS X applications can use these types of dialogs:  
- **Modeless**. A modeless dialog enables users to change settings in a dialog while still interacting with documentwindows; theFindwindowin manyword processors is an example of a modeless dialog. Most modeless dialogs include onlythe close button title-bar control, because users usually interact briefly with a modeless dialog and then close it, they do not need to zoom it or minimize it.
- <span id="page-238-3"></span>■ **Document modal**. A document-modal dialog prevents the user from doing anything else within a particular document. The user can switch to other documents in the application and to other applications. Document-modal dialogs should be sheets, which are discussed in ["Sheets](#page-238-2) [\(Document-Modal](#page-238-2) Dialogs)" (page 239).
- **Application modal**. An application-modal dialog prevents the user from doing anything else within the owner application, although the user can switch to another application. Most application-modal dialogs do not have the standard title bar controls (close, minimize, zoom); the user dismisses these dialogs by clicking a push button, such as OK or Cancel. Application-modal dialogs that appear as the result of the user choosing a command, such as the Open dialog in [Figure](#page-248-0) 14-55 (page 249) should display a title that matches the command.  
An alert can be document modal or application modal. If the error condition or notification applies to a single document, the alert should be document modal (that is, a sheet). See the Save Changes alert in [Figure](#page-238-1) 14-46 (page 239) for an example. If the alert applies to the state of the application as a whole, or to more than one document or window belonging to that application, the alert should be application modal. Both the ReviewChanges alert for multiple unsaved documents ([Figure](#page-253-0) 14-60 (page 254)) and the Save Changes alert for applications that are not document-based ([Figure](#page-252-0) 14-59 (page 253)) are application modal.