<!-- Chunk 43 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 832 -->
<span id="page-49-2"></span>Macintosh system software is designed to address the complex problems you encounter when you create an application intended to be compatiblewith regional, linguistic, andwritingsystems around theglobe. Be aware thatyour users might be more comfortablewith another language or culture even if they live in your home country. It's much easier to include worldwide compatibility from the beginning of your development process than to try to incorporate support for script systems after your product development is complete. For more information, see Getting Started With [Internation](http://developer.apple.com/referencelibrary/GettingStarted/GS_Internationalization/index.html)[alization](http://developer.apple.com/referencelibrary/GettingStarted/GS_Internationalization/index.html).  
<span id="page-49-1"></span>Beforeyou develop software forworldwide use, considerthe issues discussed in the followingsections.  
#### <span id="page-49-3"></span>Cultural Values  
Make sure that visible interface elements can be localized (that is, translated into other languages and otherwise adapted for use in other countries). Whenever you design a user interface, consider that various regions of the world may differ in their use of color, graphics, calendars, text, and the representation of time. Specific objects or symbols (such as electrical outlets and the currencysymbol) may also have a different appearance, or not be understood, in other countries.  
Graphics can enhance your application, but an image can also be offensive to certain audiences. Cultures assign varying values and characteristics to living creatures, plants, and inanimate objects. For example, in the United States the owl is a symbol of wisdom and knowledge, whereas in Central America the owl represents witchcraft and black magic. It's a good idea to avoid the use of seasons, holidays, or calendar events in software thatyou expect to distributeworldwide. Ifyou include images that represent holidays or seasons—such as Christmas trees, pumpkins, or snow—be sure they can be localized.  
Different calendars are used to mark time around the world. The United States and most of Europe observe time according the Gregorian calendar. The traditional Arabic calendar, the Jewish calendar, and the Chinese calendar are lunar rather than solar. In many places, time is marked according to one calendar for business and government purposes, and another for religious events. Mac OS X allows users to select and customize the way such information is displayed in the Formats pane of International preferences. Most APIs take these locale preferences into account when getting or formatting dates, times, and number-based data, such as monetary values or measurements. In most cases, therefore, your application should not have to perform formatting or conversion tasks. See *Internationalization Programming Topics* for more information on how to handle locale-sensitive data.  
<span id="page-49-4"></span>Also remember to support different address formats. Don't assume all addresses are in the native format of your country. Address Book lets users store address data for users in multiple countries. If you support or display Address Book data,you must be prepared to handle different address formats and postal code information.