<!-- Chunk 118 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 589 -->
Ifyour application isn't primarilya text application, but it has text entryfields in dialogs, for example, you may not need to provide the full text-editing features described in this section. Ideally, an application that includes text editing should support the following features:  
- The user can select the whole field and type in a new value, delete text, select a substring of the field and replace it, and select a word by double-clicking.
- The user can choose Undo, Cut, Copy, Paste, and Delete, as described in "The Edit [Menu"](#page-180-0) (page 181)
- The application performs appropriate edit checks. For example, if the only legitimate value for a field is a string of digits, the application should alert the user if any nondigits are typed. For a more complete discussion of when to check for errors and apply changes in text fields, see ["Accepting](#page-242-3) Changes" (page 243)  
When possible, support automatically filling in text fields as users type. You might fill in a field with frequently typed information or information from a history list. If you do this, indicate what you are automatically filling in, perhaps by highlighting it, so it is clear what the user has typed and what information your application is providing.  
<span id="page-118-2"></span>If your application requires specific pieces of information from the user, you might assume that you should display an asterisk or custom icon next to each required text field and selection control. Doing so, however, can make your user interface appear cluttered and unappealing. To avoid this, begin by designing your user interface so that it's easy for the user to comply with your requests. Then, if the user forgets to fill in a specific text field, you can display an asterisk or custom icon next to that field to draw attention to it. For example, if your application requires information to set up a service, make choices easy for the user by ensuring that radio buttons, pop-up menus, and other selection controls do not allow an empty selection. For text fields, wait until the user attempts to leave the current context (for example, byclicking Continue or OK), then displaythe "required" icon next to fields that are still empty. For some further guidelines on providing a good setup experience for your users, see "Setup [Assistants](#page-87-0) " (page 88)