<!-- Chunk 51 | Source: 2008-01 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 984 -->
Afteryou've met the minimum requirements,you should concentrate on deliveringthe features users expect. Macintosh users are sophisticated and most have come to expect a certain level of functionality and elegance in the applications they use. Although theguidelines in this section are not as elementary as those described in "Meet Minimum [Requirements"](#page-55-0) (page 56), they embody key features your application should provide.  
To deliver the features Macintosh users expect, be sure to:  
■ Communicate effectively.  
Mac OS X excels at providingessential information to users in an integrated and effective manner. Similarly, your application should provide useful error messages, feedback on commands and lengthytasks, and appropriate status information.Forinformation on howto do this, see ["Feedback](#page-43-2) and [Communication"](#page-43-2) (page 44).  
■ Support application bundles and drag-and-drop installation.  
Application bundles simplifythe user's interactionwith your software and enable drag-and-drop installation, which is the preferred method of application installation in Mac OS X. Macintosh users expect a quick, painless application installation experience; be sure to supply it by making your application available in a bundle and supporting drag-and-drop installation. For more information on bundles and application installation, see ["Packaging"](#page-84-1) (page 85) and ["Installation"](#page-85-1) (page 86).  
■ Create high-quality icons and graphics.  
Part of the allure of Mac OS X is the abundance of beautiful, realistic, photo-illustrative icons. Be sure your application displays the type of high-quality, attractive icons Macintosh users expect. For guidance on different types of icons and how to design them, see ["Icons"](#page-138-0) (page 139).  
■ Comply with the layout guidelines.  
Applications that follow the layout guidelines present a clean, organized, and intuitive look and feel to users. Macintosh users are accustomed to uncluttered, visually appealing windows with conveniently placed controls.For helpwith the spacingof individual controls, see ["Controls"](#page-258-0) (page 259); for some examples showing how to combine controls in windows, see ["Layout](#page-350-0) [Guidelines"](#page-350-0) (page 351).  
■ Provide effective user assistance.  
Effective and readily available user assistance is a hallmark of a good application. Mac OS X supports both Apple Help,which allowsyou to displayin-depth help documents in Help Viewer, and help tags,which allowyou to displaybrief, context-sensitive information about userinterface elements. Because these help mechanisms are used extensivelybythe system, Apple applications, and most third-party applications, Macintosh users rely on them when they need help with a task or control. For more information on using these mechanisms to provide help to your users, see "User [Assistance"](#page-82-0) (page 83).  
#### ■ Support drag and drop.  
Drag-and-drop functionality is ubiquitous in Mac OS X, making it one of the most appreciated and well-known features of the platform. Although you should be sure to provide keyboard alternatives to the drag-and-drop operations in your application, it's essential to fully support this direct manipulation technology. For more information on this technology, see ["Drag](#page-120-0) and [Drop"](#page-120-0) (page 121).  
#### ■ Use display names.  
Mac OS X allows users to customize how file, directory, and application names are displayed. Macintosh users are accustomed to makingthis choice and expect their preference to be observed throughout the file system and in applications. Be sure to respect the user's display name preference in your application (note that this also makes internationalization much easier). For more information about filename extensions and display names, see "File Formats and [Filename](#page-64-1) [Extensions"](#page-64-1) (page 65).