<!-- Chunk 136 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 638 -->
A **table view** displays data in a one-column list, with optional additional columns that display attributes associated with the data.  
**API Note:** To define a simple table view in your code, use the NSTableView class. To get disclosure triangles in a list, use an NSOutlineView object in column format.  
A table view displays the entire set of data in the leftmost column (in systems that use left-to-right script). When the data is hierarchical, the child objects are revealed within the primary column, not in other columns (table views use disclosure triangles to indicate objects that contain other objects).  
Additional columns in a table view display attributes that apply to the data in the primary column; they don't contain data that isspecific to a different level of hierarchy. In general, users can resize, rearrange, and sometimes add and subtract the columns that represent attributes of the table data.  
When users click a disclosure triangle to reveal the child items contained within another item, the table lengthens and the leftmost column can widen. If the primary column widens, other columns might shift to the right, but they don't change their headings or order.  
In an editable table view, users begin editing by clicking once on a selected table row. This behavior allows the table view to respond differently to a double click. In the Finder, for example, users can double-click a file to open it or single-click a selected file to edit its name.  
**Note:** Table views, like other scrolling areas, are governed by the user's scroll direction setting in System Preferences.  
Use a table view to display a list of items along with various attributes of each item. If you need to display a simple list of items, and you don't need to display associated attributes, you might want to use a scrolling list instead. For more information about scrolling lists, see [Scrolling](#page-194-0) List (page 195). Using a table view, you can create a column for each attribute that is associated with the items you display.  
**Sort the rows in a table view by the selected column heading.** You can implement sorting on secondary attributes behind the scenes, but the user should see only one column selected at a time. If the user clicks an already selected column heading, change the direction of the sort.  
**Create column headers that are nouns or short noun phrases that describe an attribute of the data.** When you use clear,succinct attribute names, users quickly understand what information is available in each column.