<!-- Chunk 160 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 388 -->
Calendar helps people manage their schedules and create and respond to events. You can integrate Calendar information into your app so that users don't need to look up or reenter information. With the Event Kit framework, you can access users' events and create, edit, or delete new events. See *Calendar and Reminders Programming Guide* for more information.  
**Don't modify a user's Calendar data without permission.** Before creating, editing, or deleting a user's event, make sure you get permission from the user. Additionally, when you perform operations on a group of events that result in significant changes to the user's Calendar, make sure the user is fully informed of the action your app is about to perform.  
Using Reminders, people keep track of tasks, to-do items, and events. Users specify the time and location of a reminder,set an alarm, and mark it completed when it'sfinished. Using the Event Kit framework, you can access users' reminders, and create, edit, or delete new reminders. Reminders and Calendars use the same framework and accessthe same Calendar database. See *Calendar and Reminders ProgrammingGuide* for more information.  
<span id="page-261-2"></span>**Don't modify a user's Reminder data without permission.** Before creating, editing, or deleting a user's reminder, make sure you get permission from the user. Additionally, when you perform operations on a group of reminders that result in significant changes to the user's data, make sure the user is fully informed of the action your app is about to perform.