<!-- Chunk 31 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1234 -->
Early in the design process, start thinking about accessibility and worldwide compatibility so that the market for your app is as large as possible. It's much easier to build in support for accessibility and internationalization from the beginning than it is to add support to a finished app.  
OS X includes many assistive features, including VoiceOver, zoom, and full keyboard access mode. When your app is accessible, users can interact with it using the assistive device or feature of their choice. For example, in addition to speaking the UI to VoiceOver users, VoiceOver can also show the current focus and output to the user's sighted colleagues. To learn more about supporting accessibility in your app, see [VoiceOver](#page-265-0) and [Accessibility](#page-265-0) (page 266).  
**Note:** Using the system-provided colors lets you respond appropriately when users change the "Increase contrast" and "Reduce transparency" accessibility preferences. (In your code, you can listen for the NSWorkspaceAccessibilityDisplayOptionsDidChangeNotification notification to find out when accessibility settings have changed.)  
**Prepare your app forlocalization by internationalizing it. Internationalization** involvesseparating user-visible text and images from your executable code. When you isolate this data, you make it easier to localize your app, which is the process of adapting an internationalized app for culturally distinct markets. To get more details about internationalization and localization, read *Internationalization and Localization Guide* .  
**Plan to localize visible UI elements.** That is, make sure the UI elements in your app can be translated into other languages and otherwise adapted for use in other countries. When you use the Auto Layout, you can specify how text and other UI elements are related so that localizers don't have to redesign your layout to accommodate different lengths of text. To learn more about the advantages of Auto Layout, see Cocoa Auto Layout in *Mac Technology Overview*.  
**Pay attention to the possible meanings of the graphics and symbols in your app.** Make sure your graphics and symbols are unambiguous and inoffensive to all, or prepare to localize them. For example, if you use images of American holidays to represent seasons—such as Christmas trees, pumpkins, or fireworks—be sure to localize them for cultures that are not familiar with those holidays.  
**Be aware of the user's locale preferences.** In the Formats pane of Language & Text preferences, OS X helps users customize the way dates, times, and number-based data (such as monetary values or measurements) are displayed. Most APIstake these preferencesinto account when getting or formatting thistype of information, so you shouldn't have to perform custom formatting or conversion tasks.  
**Support different address formats.** Don't assume that all of the user's contacts have addresses that are in the same format as the user's address. Contacts helps users keep track of contacts all over the world by supporting different regions and allowing customization of any format. If you support or display Contacts data, be prepared to handle different address formats and postal code information.  
**Make your text easy to translate.** Translating text is a sophisticated, delicate task. Avoid using colloquial phrases or nonstandard usage and syntax that can be difficult to translate. Carefully choose words for menu commands, dialogs, and help text. Be aware that text in U.S. English can grow up to 50 percent longer when translated to other languages.  
**Use complete sentences in string resources whenever possible.** Grammar problems may arise when you concatenate multiple strings to create sentences; the word order may become completely different in another language, rendering the message nonsensical when translated. For example, word order in German sometimes places the verb at the end of a sentence. For more information on handling text in other languages, see Guidelines for Internationalization.  
**Consider text size, location, and direction when creating window layouts.** Text size varies in different languages. Also, depending on the script system, the direction of the text may change. Most Middle Eastern languages read from right to left. Text location and alignment within a window should be easy to change.  
**As much as possible, identify the logical flow of content and use that to determine the layout of your UI.** For example, the more important or higher level objects are usually placed near the upper left of a window that is designed for regions associated with left-to-right languages. In a version of the window that targets users who read right-to-left languages, it makes sense to reverse this layout. The more you can characterize user interface objects according to their logical, not visual, position, the more easily you can extend your app to other markets.