<!-- Chunk 183 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1004 -->
For the best results, enlist a professional graphic designer to help you develop an overall visual style for your app, and apply that style to the app icon and all the other icons and images in the app.  
**Consider giving your app icon a realistic, unique shape.** In OS X, app icons can have the shape of the objects they depict, including cutouts. A unique outline focuses attention on the depicted object and makes it easier for users to recognize the icon at a glance. If necessary, you can use a circular shape to encapsulate a set of images.  
**Important:** Avoid using the "rounded tile" shape that users associate with iOS app icons.  
**Don't reuse your iOS app icon, if you have one.** If you're developing an OS X version of an iOS app, you should not reuse your iOS app icon. Although you want users to recognize your app, you don't want to imply that your app isn't tailored for the OS X environment. Start by reexamining the way you use images and metaphors in your iOS app icon. For example, if the iOS app icon shows a tree inside the rectangle, consider using the tree itself for your OS X app icon. For more information, see [Redesign](#page-320-1) Your iOS Artwork for OS X (page 321).  
**Use universal imagery that people can easily recognize.** Avoid focusing on a secondary or lessfamiliar aspect of an element.  
**Strive for simplicity.** In particular, avoid cramming lots of images into an icon. Try to use a single object that expresses the essence of your app. Start with a basic shape and add details strategically. If an icon's content or shape is overly complex, the details can become confusing and may appear blurry at smaller sizes.  
**Use color and shadow judiciously to help the icon tell its story.** Don't add color just to make the icon brighter. Also, smooth gradients typically work better than sharp delineations of color. Subtle shadows can give objects dimensionality and realism, and can help tie the elements of an icon together so that the result doesn't look like a collage.  
**Avoid mixing actual text with "greek" text or wavy lines to suggest text.** If you want to show text in your icon but you don't want to draw attention to the words, start with actual text and make it hard to read by shrinking it or doubling the layers. Shrinking text also makesthe detailsin your icon sharper for high-resolution displays.  
**Note:** If your app is available in multiple languages, you may want to use "greek" text or wavy lines to suggest generic text instead of using words in a specific language. Don't mix fake text with real text.  
**Create an idealized version of the subject rather than using a photo.** Although it can be appropriate to use a photo (or a screenshot) in an app icon, it's often better to augment reality in an artistic way. Creating an idealized version can help you emphasize the aspects of the subject that you want users to notice.  
If your app has a very recognizable UI, consider creating a refined representation of it instead of using an actual screenshot of your product in the app icon. Creating an enhanced version of the UI is particularly important when users could confuse a large version of the icon with the actual interface of the app.  
**Note:** If an app icon depicts an image that is effectively a precursor of what users see when they open the app, it should use the straight-on, "flat against the wall" perspective. It makes sense to use this perspective because users would never see the app UI as if it were sitting on a desk.  
**Avoid using OS X UI elements (including icons) in your icons.** You don't want users to confuse your icons with the OS X UI.  
<span id="page-315-0"></span>**Don't use replicas of Apple products in youricons.** The symbolsthat represent Apple products are copyrighted and can't be reproduced in your icons. In general, it's a good idea to avoid replicas of any specific products or devices in your icons. These designs change frequently, and icons that are based on them can look dated.