<!-- Chunk 26 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 504 -->
Abbreviations and acronyms save space in the UI, but they can be confusing if users don't know what they mean. Conversely, some abbreviations and acronyms are better known than the words or phrases they stand for, and an app that uses the spelled-out version can seem out-of-date and unnecessarily wordy.  
To balance these two considerations, gauge an acronym or abbreviation in terms of its appropriateness for your app's intended users. To help you decide whether to use a specific abbreviation or acronym, consider the following questions:  
- Is the acronym or abbreviation one that your users understand and feel comfortable with? For example, everyone uses CD as the abbreviation for compact disc, so even apps intended for novice users can use this abbreviation.
- On the other hand, an app intended for users who work with colorspaces and color printing can use CMYK (which stands for cyan magenta yellow key), even though this abbreviation might not be familiar to a broader range of users.
- Is the spelled-out word or phrase less recognizable than the acronym or abbreviation? For example, many users are unaware that Cc originally stood for the phrase carbon copy (that is, the practice of using carbon paper to produce multiple copies of paper documents). In addition, the meanings of Cc and carbon copy have diverged so that they are no longer synonymous. Using carbon copy in place of Cc, therefore, would be confusing to users.  
For some abbreviations and acronyms, the precise spelled-out word or phrase is equivocal. For example, DVD originally stood for both digital video disc and digital versatile disc. Because of this ambiguity, it's not helpful to use either phrase; it's much clearer to use DVD.  
<span id="page-48-1"></span>If you use a potentially unfamiliar acronym or abbreviation in the user help book for your app, be sure to define it when you first use it. To learn more about the help technologies available to your app, see [User](#page-270-0) [Assistance](#page-270-0) (page 271).