<!-- Chunk 147 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 980 -->
App extensions increase the reach of your app, giving users access to focused parts of its functionality while they use other apps. For example, while viewing websites in Safari, people can use your Share extension to post an image or an article to your social website. Or while using the Finder, people can use your Finder Sync extension to choose documents that you synchronize with a remote data source. (In these scenarios, Safari and the Finder are called **host apps** because they give users access to extensions.)  
You deliver an app extension inside an app that you submit to the App Store (an app that contains extensions is called a **containing app**). After enabling the extension in your containing app, people can use it to perform a quick task while they're using other apps. For example, while reading about a product in an email message, people might use your Action extension to add the product to a shopping list without having to leave Mail.  
<span id="page-234-1"></span>Table 44-1 lists the types of app extensions you can create.  
**Table 44-1** Types of app extensions  
| App extension type | People use the extension to…                                                                                                     |
|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Today<br>widget    | Get<br>a<br>quick<br>update<br>or<br>perform<br>a<br>quick<br>task<br>in<br>the<br>Today<br>view<br>of<br>Notification<br>Center |
| Share              | Post<br>to<br>a<br>website<br>or<br>share<br>content<br>with<br>others                                                           |
| Action             | Manipulate<br>or<br>view<br>content<br>within<br>the<br>context<br>of<br>another<br>app                                          |
| Finder<br>Sync     | Get<br>information<br>about<br>file<br>sync<br>status<br>within<br>the<br>Finder                                                 |  
The following guidelines apply to app extensions of all types; for guidance that's specific to a particular type of app extension, see the sections below. (To learn how to develop, debug, and distribute an extension, see *App Extension Programming Guide* .)  
**Enable a single task.** An app extension is not a mini version of your app. Instead, an extension performs a narrowly scoped task in the context of the user's larger goal. And because users typically perform the task within the app extension's dedicated view, the extension user experience is a lot like the experience of other modal tasks.  
**Keep user interactions limited and streamlined.** The best app extensions let people perform the task in just a few clicks or gestures so that they can return to their earlier context as soon as possible. For example, a Share extension might let people post an image with a single click.  
**Incorporate the name of your containing app into the name of each extension it provides.** Although multiple extensionsin one containing app should each have a unique name, you want to make sure that users understand the relationship between your extensions and your app. People encounter extensionsin many different contexts, and they're unlikely to trust an extension if they don't recognize it.  
**In most cases, use the icon of the containing app.** Displaying a familiar icon is another way an extension can gain users's trust.  
**Important:** As with all icons and graphics you design, don't replicate OS X icons or images and don't create images of Apple products and designs.  
**Avoid displaying a modal view on top of an extension.** Many extensions are displayed within a modal view by default, and it's best to avoid layering modal views. Although there are cases where users might see an alert on top of an extension, avoid designing an extension workflow that requires a modal view.