<!-- Chunk 55 | Source: 2014 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 607 -->
As with menu titles, it's important to choose menu item names that are accurate and informative so that users can predict the result of choosing an item.  
Menu item names describe actions that are performed on an object or attributes that are applied to an object. Specifically:  
- **Actions** are verbs or verb phrases that declare the action that occurs when the user chooses the item. For example, Print means *print my document* and Copy means *copy my selection* .
- **Attributes** are adjectives or adjective phrases that describe the change the command implements. Adjectives in menus imply an action and they can often fit into the sentence "Change the selected object to …" —for example, *Bold* or *Italic* .  
Follow these guidelines as you create names for menu items.  
**In general, avoid including definite or indefinite articles in the menu item name.** Including an article is rarely helpful because the user has already made a selection or entered a context to which the command applies. Good examples are "Add Account" instead of "Add an Account" and "Hide Toolbar" instead of "Hide the Toolbar." Be sure that you use this style consistently in all your menu item names.  
**Use an ellipsis to show users thatfurther action is required to complete the command.** The ellipsis character (…) means that a dialog or a separate window will open in which users need to make additional choices or supply additional information in order to complete the action. For details on when to use an ellipsis in menu items, see Use an Ellipsis When More Input Is [Required](#page-48-1) (page 49).  
**Use title-style capitalization for menu item names.** For more information on this style, see Use the [Right](#page-46-0) [Capitalization](#page-46-0) Style in Labels and Text (page 47).  
**If appropriate, define a keyboard shortcut for a frequently used menu item.** A keyboard shortcut, such as Command-C for Copy, can make common tasks easier for sophisticated users. Before you create a keyboard shortcut for a custom menu item, be sure to read the guidelines in Providing [Keyboard](#page-296-1) Shortcuts (page 297).  
**Dim unavailable menu items.** When a menu item is dimmed (that is, gray), it helps users understand that the item is unavailable because, for example, it doesn't apply to the selected object or in the current context. A dimmed menu item does not highlight when the user moves the pointer over it.