<!-- Chunk 29 | Source: 1986-07 Human Interface Guidelines (Second Beta Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 487 -->
Computers hold tremendous promise for people with many kinds of disabilities. Computers can magnify the productivity and mobility of disabled people even more than for other users. But too often, computers perversely become obstacles rather than enablers, because many disabilities make it hard to use standard computers and software. In most cases, thoughtful hardware design is the solution, but there are things that software designers can do, too.  
Many of the modifications that make programs easier for disabled people to use are simple and inexpensive to make, and they often have a welcome and unexpected side effect—the programs are easier for *everyone* to use. Although sidewalk curb cuts are designed to help people who rely on crutches and wheelchairs, they are used and appreciated at least as much by the more able—bodied population. Similarly, keyboard shortcuts for mouse activities are provided because using the mouse is difficult for people with motor problems—but other users take advantage of them as well.  
For more information on the needs of disabled people, contact Apple's Office of Special Education Programs.  
#### Vision Disabilities  
People with vision problems have the most trouble with the output display. The Macintosh's ability vary the size of display text makes it easy to accommodate the needs of many people with vision problems. Software can be designed with a "zoom" feature that automatically increases the size of characters on the screen. Some systems even allow changing the size of the system font (but consider the effect this would have on the width of title bars and of the menu bar).  
Color can present problems for many people. Don't let people's ability to use your software depend on their ability to distinguish one color from another. Be sure that all information contained in color—coded portions of the display is also presented in some other way (capitalization, position, highlighting).