<!-- Chunk 63 | Source: 2006-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 369 -->
People with a visual disability have the most trouble with the display (the screen). Some users need high contrast. Software that can handle different text sizes makes it easier to support people with a visual disability. Mac OS X (version 10.2 and later) provides an onscreen zooming option in Universal Access preferences. Following the layout guidelines provided in "Layout [Examples"](#page-288-0) (page 289) helps users with low vision by ensuring the proper use of spacing and alignment.  
In Mac OS X version 10.4, Apple introduced VoiceOver, a full-featured spoken interface for the Macintosh. VoiceOver allows users to navigate the user interface of the system and any accessible application and provides an audible description of the user'sworkspace and all the activities occurring on the computer. You should test your application using VoiceOver to make sure it's fully accessible. For more information on accessibility in Mac OS X, see *Accessibility Overview*.  
<span id="page-49-0"></span>Keep in mind that some people have color-vision deficiencies. Although the judicious use of color can enhance your application's user interface, don't create interfaces that rely solely on color coding to convey important information. Color coding should always be redundant to other types of cues, such as text, position, or highlighting. Allowing users to select from a variety of colors to convey information enables them to choose colors appropriate for their needs.