<!-- Chunk 24 | Source: 2006-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 389 -->
Identifying and understanding your target audience are important first steps when designing your product. Equallyimportant is the analysis of similar products in related markets to seewhat audiences they target and whether those products would be competitors or would interleave nicely with yours. Understanding the approach taken by other product designers might give you insight into the needs of your own target users.  
It is useful to create scenarios that describe a typical day of a person who uses the type of software product you are designing. Think about the different environments, tools, and constraints that this person deals with. If possible, visit actual workplaces and study how people perform those tasks you intend your product to help them perform.  
Throughout the design process, find people who fit your target audience to test your prototypes. Listen to their feedback and try to address their concerns. Develop your product with people and their capabilities—not computers and their capabilities—in mind.  
The Design Process  
Recognize that, as an application developer or interface designer, you have a greater wealth of knowledge and a more intricate understanding of your application than your customers are likely to have. Although you should use that knowledge to choose the best default settings or decide the best presentation of information, remember that you are not designing the program for yourself. It is not *your* needs or *your* usage patterns that you are designing for, but those of your (potential) customers.