<!-- Chunk 306 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 415 -->
Capsule style toolbar buttons can contain text or images. If you provide a capsule-style segmented control, avoid displaying text in some segments and icons in others. Instead, make sure every segment in the control has the same type of content.  
If you display an icon in a capsule-style toolbar control, be sure the meaning of the icon is clear and unambiguous (see ["Cultural](#page-46-2) Values" (page 47) for some advice on choosing appropriate imagery). In Mac OS X v10.5 and later, Interface Builder makes it easy to add system-provided images, such as the plus sign, the accounts symbol, and the Action menu symbol. See ["System-Provided](#page-150-0) Images" (page 151) for more information on images available in Mac OS X v10.5 and later.  
If you decide to create your own icons to display in a capsule-style toolbar control, see ["Designing](#page-149-0) Icons for [Capsule-Style](#page-149-0) Toolbar Controls" (page 150) for some tips and guidelines.  
If you want to display text in a capsule-style toolbar control, use a noun (or noun phrase) that describes an object, setting, or state, or use a verb (or verb phrase) that describes an action. Text in capsule-style toolbar controls has title-style capitalization (see ["Capitalization](#page-130-1) of Interface Element Labels and Text" (page 131) for more on this style).  
**Important:** You must supply a descriptive label for each capsule-style toolbar control you place in a toolbar so that users can customize the toolbar to display both images and text. This is the external label users see when they select the Icon & Text and Text Only display options in the Customize Toolbar dialog.