<!-- Chunk 221 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 633 -->
<span id="page-173-6"></span>**About** *ApplicationName***.** Opens your application's About window, which contains copyright information and version number. (For more information,see "About [Windows"](#page-228-1) (page 229). If you've specified a short name (see "The [Application](#page-173-0) Menu Title" (page 174)), use it in the About menu item; use the full application name in the About window.  
**Preferences…(Command-,).**Opens a preference window for your application. See *MultipleUser Environments* for more information on handling preferences in a multiple-user environment.  
<span id="page-173-7"></span>In the application menu, put all commands that provide access to your application's preference dialogs first, followed by application-specific items. Put a menu separator between the About command and the Preferences command. If your application provides document-specific preferences, make them available in the File menu (see "The File [Menu"](#page-174-0) (page 175)). Most document-specific preferences should have a unique name, such as Page Setup, rather than Preferences.  
<span id="page-173-3"></span>**Services.** The Services submenu provides a way for one application to offer its capabilities to another application. See *Mac OS X Technology Overview* for more information on services.  
<span id="page-173-8"></span><span id="page-173-4"></span>**Hide** *ApplicationName* **(Command-H).** Hides all of the windows of the currently running application and brings the most recently used application to the foreground. If necessary, use the short application title (see "The [Application](#page-173-0) Menu Title" (page 174)).  
<span id="page-173-5"></span>**Hide Others (Command-Option-H).** Hides the windows of all the other applications currently running.  
**Show All.** Shows all windows of all currently running applications.  
<span id="page-173-2"></span>**Quit** *ApplicationName* **(Command-Q).** This last item in the application menu should be preceded by a separator. When a user chooses Quit and there are unsaved documents, present the necessary alerts (see "Dialogs for Saving, Closing, and [Quitting"](#page-240-0) (page 241)). If necessary, use the short application name (see ["The](#page-173-0) [Application](#page-173-0) Menu Title" (page 174)).  
You may include other application-specific menu items between the Preferences and Services menu items. Don't include a Help menu item however, because this belongsin the Help menu (see "The Help [Menu"](#page-182-0) (page 183)).