<!-- Chunk 33 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 678 -->
<span id="page-33-2"></span>One feature that draws users to the Macintosh platform, and to Mac OS X in particular, is the stylish design and attractive appearance of the hardware and software. Although creating attractive hardware and system software is Apple's job, you should take advantage of the strengths of Mac OS X to give your own software an attractive appearance.  
The Finder and other applications that come with Mac OS X use high-resolution, high-quality graphics and icons that include 32-bit color and transparency. Make sure that your applications also use high-quality graphics both for the sake of appearance and to better convey relevant information to users. For example, the system uses pulsing buttons to identify the most likely choice and transparency effects to add a dimensional quality to windows.  
<span id="page-33-3"></span>Here are some guidelines to keep in mind as you design the appearance of your software:  
- <span id="page-33-8"></span>■ Follow the guidelines in Part III of this document when designing your user interface. The guidelines offer advice on how to lay out content and design the visual appearance of your software.
- <span id="page-33-7"></span>■ From packaging to user interface polish, make sure your software looks professionally designed.
- ❏ Use high-quality graphics and icons. If needed, contract with a professional graphic design firm to create these for you.
- ❏ Adopt standard Mac OS X user-interface elements, such as controls, menus, and dialogs. Do not implement your own custom controls or dialogs to replace those provided by the system.
- ❏ Refer to the guidelines in this document if you absolutely need a control that is not provided by the system and read ["Extending](#page-50-0) the Interface" (page 51) before you decide to create a new element or change the behavior of an existing element.
- <span id="page-33-9"></span><span id="page-33-6"></span>■ Use 32-bit color. Mac OS X is optimized to provide the best performance for 32-bit color. You don't have to limit yourself to an 8-bit color palette for visual elements. Support for 8-bit graphics is minimal and available mostly to support legacy applications.
- <span id="page-33-5"></span>■ Use Interface Builder to design your user interface. Even if you do not use the resulting nib files, you can use the metrics provided by Interface Builder to lay out your views and controls precisely in your code. See *Interface Builder* for an introduction to this application's features.
- <span id="page-33-4"></span><span id="page-33-1"></span>■ Render your text and graphics using modern APIs such as Quartz, Cocoa, ATSUI, and OpenGL. Avoid using legacy drawing APIs such as QuickDraw.