<!-- Chunk 237 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 374 -->
A document window should display the name of the document being viewed. Application windows display the application name. Panels display a descriptive title appropriate for that window. If the contents of the window can change, it might be appropriate to change the title to reflect the current context. For example, in the Keynote inspector panel, the title of the window changes to reflect which pane has been selected.  
If you need to display more than one item in the title, separate the items with an em dash (—) with space on eitherside. For example, the main viewer window of Mail displaysthe currently selected message mailbox and the selected folder, if any. When a message is viewed in its own window, the message title is displayed.  
Don't display pathnames in window titles. When displaying document titles, use the display name and show the extension if the user has elected to show extensions. If you need to display a path in the body of a window you can use the path control, described in "Path [Controls"](#page-288-0) (page 289).  
The only controlsthat belong in a title bar are the close, minimize, and zoom buttons. If a title bar is combined with a toolbar, the unified area can contain the toolbar control and the toolbar customization contextual menu (these controls are described in "Title Bar [Buttons"](#page-193-1) (page 194)). Do not place other controls in a title bar.  
Window Elements **193 2008-06-09 | © 1992, 2001-2003, 2008 Apple Inc. All Rights Reserved.**