<!-- Chunk 82 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 413 -->
Application bundles simplify installation and are easy for the user to move around in the Finder. Application bundles are the preferred mechanism for software distribution. Here are some tips to help you manage your application bundle's resource files:  
- <span id="page-64-5"></span>■ Include all required resources inside your application bundle. Your application bundle should always have everything it needs in order to run.
- <span id="page-64-4"></span>■ Include only the specific subset of files that require localization in your application bundle's language-specific resource directories. If a resource does not require localization, there is no need to create extra copies of it. The bundle-loading code checksfor global resources as well aslocalized resources and returns the one that is most appropriate.
- <span id="page-64-3"></span>■ Use an installer to place optional resourcesin the appropriate Library subdirectory of the user'ssystem. Optional resources are thingslike document templates or other resourcesthat are useful to an application but not required for it to launch. Most application-related files should go in an application-specific subdirectory of ~/Library/Application Support or /Library/Application Support. See *File System Overview* for information on where to install files.
- Avoid storing data in the resource fork of your application executable. Resource forks are not an appropriate way to store application-related resources. Instead, store your resources as individual files inside your application bundle. See *Bundle Programming Guide* for more information on where resources belong in the bundle structure.