<!-- Chunk 451 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 483 -->
<span id="page-328-4"></span>Use a tab view when you want to present a small number of different content views in one place within a window. Depending on the size of the window, you can create a tab view that contains between two and about six tabs.  
The content area below a tab is called a **pane**, and each tab is attached to a specific pane. Within a pane, provide controls and information that affect only the objects contained in the pane, not objects in the rest of the window or in other panes.  
You can position a tab view in two different ways (see "Tab View [Specifications"](#page-329-0) (page 330) for examples of these styles):  
■ Extend the side and bottom edges of the tab view to the window edges, so there is no window-body area visible to the sides or below the tab view.  
Use this style when you want the contents of the entire window-body area below the tab control to be managed by the tabs.  
■ Inset the tab view in the window, so that a margin of window-body area is visible on all sides of the tab view.  
Use this style when you want to be able to provide controls that affect the entire window, not just the current pane. (The global controlsshould be in the window-body area below the tab view;see "Tab [View](#page-329-0) [Specifications"](#page-329-0) (page 330) for layout guidelines for this style.)  
**Note:** Multiple rows of tabs are not supported in Mac OS X.  
Iif you have too many tabs to fit into a window properly it's acceptable, although not highly recommended, to use instead a pop-up menu to change the contents of a group box [\(Figure](#page-331-2) 15-87 (page 332) shows how this looks). Another alternative to a tab view is a segmented control, which also provides a way to switch among panes. A segmented control looks similar to a tab view, but it is not attached to the panes (see ["Segmented](#page-276-0) Controls" (page 277) for more information about segmented controls).