<!-- Chunk 466 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 461 -->
<span id="page-336-3"></span>This chapter contains guidelines that help you lay out windows and alerts. In most cases, these guidelines do not dictate exact pixel measurements you must use, but instead describe the fundamental Aqua layout principles of center equalization, text and control alignment, appropriate use of white space, and visual balance. When you follow these guidelines, you create functional, aesthetically pleasing windows that are easy for Macintosh users to understand and use.  
As you design the layout of your window, be sure to observe the principle of consistency in the decisions you make (for more on this human interface design principle, see ["Consistency"](#page-42-0) (page 43)). In particular, if you have a good reason to bend some of the layout guidelines, be sure you do it in a consistent way. People tend to ignore symmetry and balance, but notice inconsistency. When there is inconsistency in a window users not only notice it, but often assume that there is a functional reason for the difference. To avoid misleading users, therefore, be sure that any inconsistencies in your window are there because you want to call attention to an element in the window.  
Inconsistencies in a window can also lead users to conclude that the window was merely poorly designed. For example, users probably won't notice if the marginsinside your window edges are 18 pixels wide (instead of the typically recommended 20 pixels), but they are likely to notice if the left margin is wider than the right one.  
The easiest way to ensure that your windows are attractive and consistent isto use Interface Builder to design your layout. When you do this, you can take advantage of the Aqua guidesthatshow you most of the spacing recommended in this chapter (see *Interface Builder User Guide* for help using Interface Builder).