<!-- Chunk 273 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 504 -->
If a transparent panel is appropriate for your application, it's important to design it appropriately to ensure that it looks good and meets users' needs. In particular, a transparent panel should contain only simple adjustment controls that do not require much, if any, typing. Sliders and stepper-style controls work well, because they're easy for users to use without focusing on them. As much as possible, you should avoid controls that require users to type or to select items, because they force users to shift their attention from the content to the panel. This defeats one of the main advantages of transparent panels, which is to allow users to focus on their content.  
Because controls and text need to be visible on the dark translucent background of a transparent panel, you should design controls that are white with gray accents and use white or gray text. As users focus on the content behind the panel, the white text and controls appear to be floating above it.  
Often, small amounts of color can enhance the information you provide in a transparent panel. For example, the morsels of color in the Aperture Adjustments panel (shown in [Figure](#page-226-0) 14-42 (page 227)) communicate ranges in white balance and exposure, in addition to color-specific settings, in a clear and unobtrusive way.  
If you want to use color in your transparent panel, be sure to use it sparingly, because an overuse of color lessens its impact and can be distracting. At the same time, however, the small amounts of color you use should be high contrast to look good on the dark translucent background.  
In general, transparent panels should be small, so the text and controls you design should be small, too. As you lay out a transparent panel, be sure to follow the standard Aqua layout guidelines. For more information on center equalization, label and control alignment, appropriate spacing, and visual balance,see ["Positioning](#page-336-1) [Regular-Size](#page-336-1) Controls in a Window Body" (page 337).