<!-- Chunk 14 | Source: iPhone Human Interface Guidelines for Web Applications.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1369 -->
Before you begin to work on your iPhone web application, be sure you know precisely who your users are. Although you may have defined the functionality you want to provide, if you don't know who your users are and how they're likely to use your product, it's very difficult to deliver that functionality appropriately. Understanding your usersis an important requirement for designing a successful website, but it is even more important for designing a successful iPhone web application. This is because, to be useful, an iPhone web application must deliver a focused solution to a well-defined problem.  
As you begin to design your product, therefore, spend some time defining your user audience: Are they experienced or novice, serious or casual, looking for help with a specific task or looking for entertainment? Knowing these things about your users helps you customize the user experience and user interface to their particular needs and wants.  
Content on iPhone: Is It a Webpage or an Application?  
When you design a webpage or application for iPhone users, you already know a lot about them. For example:  
- They are probably mobile right now.
- They want quick and easy access to your content.
- They need to be able to jump in and out of your webpage or application when a phone call comes in, an email message arrives, or they decide to listen to a song.
- They expect to be able to initiate a phone call, open their email, and view a Google map while they're in your content.  
If you're designing a webpage (as opposed to an iPhone web application), this may be all you need to know about your audience. In addition to ensuring that your webpage is at least compatible with Safari on iPhone, you should concentrate on building in as many of the characteristics of great iPhone content as possible (see "Principles and [Guidelines](#page-20-0) for Creating Great iPhone Content" (page 21) for advice on how to do this).  
If you're designing an iPhone web application, it's appropriate to go further in defining your audience and ask yourself what traits might set your users apart from all other iPhone users. Are they business people, teenagers, or retirees? Will they use your application at the end of every day, every time they check their email, or whenever they have a few extra moments? The more accurately you define your audience, the more accurate are your decisions about the look, feel, and functionality of your user interface.  
For example, if your application helps business people keep track of their billing time, your user interface should focus on making it easy to enter times and rates, without asking for a lot of details that aren't central to the task. In addition, you might choose a subtle color palette that appears professional and is pleasant to look at several times a day.  
Or, if your iPhone web application provides entertainment to a target audience of teenagers, you might instead want a user interface that is exciting, language that imparts a feeling of exclusivity, and a color palette that evokes current fashions.  
Finally, examine the set of features you intend to deliver. With the image of your user audience in mind, try to distill the list of features into a single statement, a product definition statement, that describes the most important functionality of your product and how it benefits your users. For example, the built-in Calendar application (shown in [Figure](#page-25-1) 3-4 (page 26)) is an easy-to-use tool that allows users to see dates and associate events with specific days. The product definition statement for this application could be "A date and event tracking tool for all users."  
As you design your content, use your product definition statement to help you decide which features are critical (and should be prominent) and which are secondary. It's especially important to eliminate those featuresthat don'tsupport the product definition statement, because iPhone web applications have no room to spare for functionality that isn't focused on the main task.  
Imagine, for example, that you're thinking of developing an iPhone web application that people can use when they shop for groceries. In the planning stage, you might consider including a wide range of activities users might like to perform, such as:  
Getting nutritional information about specific foods Finding coupons and special offers Creating and using shopping lists Locating stores Looking up recipes Comparing prices Keeping a running total of prices  
#### **CHAPTER 2**  
Content on iPhone: Is It a Webpage or an Application?  
However, you believe that your users are most concerned with remembering everything they need to buy, they would like to save money if possible, and they're probably in a hurry to get home with their purchases. Using this audience definition, you craft a product definition statement for your application, such as "A shopping list creation and coupon-finding tool for people in a hurry." Filtering your list of potential features through this product definition statement, you decide to focus primarily on making shopping lists easy to create, store, and use. You also offer users the ability to find coupons for the items on their list. Even though the other features are useful (and might become primary features of other applications), they don't fit the product definition statement for this application.  
#### **CHAPTER 2**  
Content on iPhone: Is It a Webpage or an Application?