<!-- Chunk 29 | Source: iPhone Human Interface Guidelines for Web Applications.pdf | Est. Tokens: 487 -->
The WebKit engine that Safari on iPhone uses allows you to style your own form controls. Using CSS, you can create custom checkboxes, text fields, selection elements, and other form controls specifically for display on iPhone.  
Although you can style form controls any way you want, you should focus on designing controls that are easy to use, attractive, and consistent both within your content and, as much as possible, with built-in iPhone controls. (For more information on the principles of ease of use and consistency,see "Principles and [Guidelines](#page-20-0) for Creating Great iPhone [Content"](#page-20-0) (page 21).) In particular, keep in mind the following:  
- Create controls that are at least 29 pixels high and provide a target area that's 44 pixels high.
- Users tap controls with their fingers, so controls that are too small are frustrating and difficult to use. Following this recommendation for control size ensures that users can successfully tap a control without mistakenly tapping a nearby control.
- Design your controls to be consistent with each other.
- Different instances of the same type of control should not be greatly dissimilar in size and style unless you need to use the differences to communicate something to users. Users assume there is a reason for user interface elementsto look different,so it's a good idea to work with this assumption and not against it. See ["Consistency"](#page-27-0) (page 28) for more information about the principle of consistency.
- Style your controls to coordinate with the design of your user interface and enhance the message you present to users.  
A pleasing user interface design encourages users to return to your webpage or application. Knowing as much as possible about your user audience helps you design the best controls for your webpage's user interface. See ["Design](#page-16-0) for Your Users" (page 17) for more information about defining your user audience.