<!-- Chunk 3 | Source: iPhone Human Interface Guidelines for Web Applications.pdf | Est. Tokens: 462 -->
Apple's iPhone presents a revolutionary user interface and interaction model. Users can view webpages, use web applications, and use built-in iPhone features, such as Mail, iPod, and Camera, wherever they go. Safari on iPhone, a unique implementation of Safari, isthe application users use to browse the web on both iPhone and iPod touch.  
**Note:** Safari on iPhone behavesthe same on iPhone and iPod touch except when userstap linksto iPhone-only applications. See *Apple URL Scheme Reference* for more information about using URL schemesto link to Apple applications.  
This document introduces you to the iPhone environment and how it shapes the user experience of iPhone content. Then, it explains how to design a superlative user interface for your web content so it displays and works well on iPhone. It does this by first examining different types of iPhone content and exploring how you can decide which type to create. It then discusses how to apply user interface design principlesto iPhone content, and finally provides numerous metrics and guidelines to help you handle specific design issues. For the implementation details and guidance you need to write the code for your iPhone product, see the "See Also" section below.  
Whether you're an experienced web content developer or an application developer unfamiliar with web content creation, you should read this document to find out what users expect of iPhone content and how to design content that exceeds those expectations.  
If you have user interface development experience, you might be tempted to skip the sections on human interface design principles and desirable application characteristics. Although your prior knowledge of these topics is extremely useful, you're encouraged to read these sections to learn how to apply your experience to the design of iPhone content.