<!-- Chunk 33 | Source: iPhone Human Interface Guidelines for Web Applications.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1805 -->
**AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML)** A cross-platform web development technique used to create interactive web applications. Typically, AJAX is understood to comprise the use of some combination of HTML [\(Hypertext](#page-48-1) Markup Language), CSS [\(Cascading](#page-48-2) Style Sheets), the DOM [\(Document](#page-48-3) Object [Model\),](#page-48-3) XML [\(Extensible](#page-49-0) Markup Language), [JavaScript](#page-48-4), and the XMLHttpRequest object.  
**button bar** A built-in iPhone user interface component. The button bar extends across the bottom of the screen in Safari on iPhone and some built-in applications. It provides buttons that act on the currently displayed iPhone feature or application.  
<span id="page-48-2"></span>**compatible with Safari on iPhone** A webpage that is W3C (World Wide Web [Consortium\)–](#page-49-1)compliant and in which all elements display and operate as designed, with the exception of any elements that rely on unsupported technologies,such as plug-ins, Flash, or Java.  
<span id="page-48-3"></span>**CSS (Cascading Style Sheets)** A style sheet language used to define the visual presentation of a document written in a markup language, such as [HTML](#page-48-1) [\(Hypertext](#page-48-1) Markup Language).  
#### **DOM (Document Object Model)** A  
<span id="page-48-6"></span>platform-independent interface, typically implemented in JavaScript, that provides a structured set of objects that correspond to a document's elements. Developers can take advantage of the DOM to dynamically access and change the content, structure, and style of a document written in a markup language,such asHTML [\(HypertextMarkup](#page-48-1) Language) or XML [\(Extensible](#page-49-0) Markup Language).  
**double tap** A user gesture used to zoom in or out on web content. A double tap consists of two quick taps. Safari on [iPhone](#page-49-2) interprets a double tap as targeting iPhone itself, not the web content. Compare [tap.](#page-49-3)  
<span id="page-48-5"></span>**drag** A user gesture used to [scroll](#page-49-4) or [pan.](#page-49-5) To drag, users place a finger on the iPhone screen and move it in the desired direction without lifting it from the screen.  
**flick** A user gesture used to [scroll](#page-49-4) or [pan](#page-49-5) quickly. To flick, users place a finger on the iPhone screen and quickly swipe it in the desired direction.  
<span id="page-48-1"></span>**form assistant** A Safari on iPhone user interface component displayed when users fill out web forms. The form assistant contains buttons that users tap to move among form controls and to dismiss the keyboard.  
**HTML (Hypertext Markup Language)** The standard scripting language used to create web content.  
<span id="page-48-4"></span>**iPhone web application** A W3C [\(World](#page-49-1) Wide Web [Consortium\)](#page-49-1)–compliant webpage or web application that provides a focused solution to users and contains no elements that rely on unsupported technologies, such as plug-ins, Flash, or Java. An iPhone web application emulates the look and behavior of the built-in iPhone applications and minimizes the user's awareness of the browser experience.  
**JavaScript** A scripting language used in web content development, primarily to create functions that can be embedded in or included from HTML [\(Hypertext](#page-48-1) Markup [Language\)](#page-48-1) documents and that interact with the DOM [\(Document](#page-48-3) Object Model).  
**optimized for Safari on iPhone** A W3C [\(World](#page-49-1) Wide Web [Consortium\)–](#page-49-1)compliant webpage that displays and operates as designed, correctly scales content for the iPhone screen, and contains no elementsthat rely on unsupported technologies,such as plug-ins, Flash, or Java.  
<span id="page-49-5"></span>**pan** To move content displayed on iPhone from side to side (horizontally) with the [drag](#page-48-5) gesture. Compare [scroll](#page-49-4).  
<span id="page-49-7"></span>**pinch close** A two-finger user gesture used to zoom out. To pinch close, users place the thumb and a finger (or two fingers) a little distance apart on the iPhone screen and move them toward each other without lifting them from the screen. Compare [pinch](#page-49-6) [open](#page-49-6).  
<span id="page-49-6"></span>**pinch open** A two-finger user gesture used to zoom in. To pinch open, users place the thumb and a finger (or two fingers) close together on the iPhone screen and move them apart without lifting them from the screen. Compare [pinch](#page-49-7) close.  
<span id="page-49-2"></span>**Safari on iPhone** A unique implementation of Safari that is native to iPhone. Safari on iPhone interprets user gestures, scales web content to fit the iPhone screen, and contains built-in features that support PDF viewing, video playback, and linking to iPhone features, such as phone, Mail, and Maps.  
<span id="page-49-4"></span>**Safari on the desktop** The version of Safari that runs on the computer desktop.  
**scroll** To move content displayed on iPhone up and down (vertically) with the [drag](#page-48-5) gesture. Compare [pan.](#page-49-5)  
**single tap** See [tap.](#page-49-3)  
<span id="page-49-3"></span>**status bar** A built-in iPhone user interface component. The status bar displaysinformation about iPhone, such as battery charge, network status, lock status, and time. The status bar is always visible.  
**tap** A user gesture used to select a control or element, analogous to a single click in a desktop application. To tap, users make a quick up-and-down motion with a finger, lightly striking the screen. [Safari](#page-49-2) on [iPhone](#page-49-2) interprets a tap as targeting the web content, not iPhone itself. Compare [double](#page-48-6) tap.  
**touch and hold** A user gesture used to display an enhanced view or additional information,such asthe address of a link, or to perform specific actions in built-in iPhone applications and features. To touch and hold, userstouch the iPhone screen, leaving their finger motionless until the information is displayed or the action occurs.  
**two-finger scroll** A user gesture used to scroll content in an element with overflow capability or a scrollable inline frame element. A two-finger scroll is a [drag](#page-48-5) performed with two fingers moving together in the same direction.  
**viewport** The rectangular area that determines how content is laid out and where text wraps on the webpage when viewed on iPhone.  
<span id="page-49-1"></span>**visible area** The area of the iPhone screen that is available for the display of web content.  
**W3C (World Wide Web Consortium)** An international consortium in which member organizations,staff, and the public participate to develop web standards and protocols. See [www.w3.org.](http://www.w3.org)  
<span id="page-49-0"></span>**WebKit** (1) An open source source web browser engine. (2) A Mac OS X application framework that provides classes to display web content, and that simplifies webpage loading and the display of content that contains various MIME types.  
**XML (Extensible Markup Language)** A markup language used to represent structured information in a standard way.