<!-- Chunk 134 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1246 -->
Because dialogs are small, transient UI elements, users don't expect to have in-depth interactions with them. Dialogs are most effective when they make it easy for users to input information and respond immediately to the changes users make.  
As you design a dialog, keep the following points in mind to help you make user interaction easy:  
- When appropriate, display default valuesfor controls and text fieldsso that the user can verify information rather than enter it from scratch.
- Display a selection or an insertion point in the first location that accepts user input—a text entry field or a list, for example.
- When it provides an obvious user benefit, ensure that static text is selectable. For example, a user should be able to copy an error message, a serial number, or IP address to paste elsewhere.  
For the most part, changes that a user makes in a dialog should appear to take effect immediately. To support the appearance of immediate effect, you need to validate the information users enter and you need to decide when to apply their changes. The following guidelines can help you provide a good dialog experience.  
**As much as possible, do error checking as the user inputs information.** If you wait to check for errors until the user tries to dismiss the dialog, you might have to present an alert, which is not a good user experience. It's better to check for errors as soon as possible, because it allows users to fix the problem before they leave the context of the dialog.  
**Avoid validating input after each keystroke.** Too-frequent validation can annoy users and slow down your app. It's better to design your interface to automatically disallow invalid input. For example, your app could automatically convert lowercase characters to uppercase when appropriate.  
**Use the length of an operation to determine whetherto perform it automatically.** Sometimes, it's appropriate for your app to automatically perform an operation based on user input; other times, it's better when the user initiates the operation—for example, by clicking a button. In general, it's acceptable to automatically perform an operation that completes quickly and returns user control within a couple of seconds. For an operation that takes a longer time to execute, it's best to display an estimate of the time required to complete the operation and let the user initiate it.  
**Provide an Apply button when it makes sense.** An Apply button can be appropriate in a dialog that displays multiple settingsthat affect the user's view of data. In thissituation, an Apply button allowsthe user to preview the effect of the selected settings without committing to the changes.  
Be cautious about using an Apply button for operations that take a long time to implement or undo; it might not be obvious to users that they can interrupt or reverse the process. In particular, save dialogs or dialogs that allow users to make changes that can't be previewed easily should not include an Apply button.  
**Don't use an Apply button to mean the same thing as the OK button.** In particular, clicking an Apply button should not dismiss a dialog because the user should first decide whether to accept the previewed changes (by clicking OK) or to reject them (by clicking Cancel). When the user dismisses the dialog without clicking OK, all previewed changes should be discarded.  
#### <span id="page-215-0"></span>Expanding Dialogs  
Sometimes you need to provide the user with additional information or functionality in a dialog, but you don't want to display it all the time. To do this, you use one of the disclosure controlsto expand the dialog and reveal the additional information or capability to the user.  
**Use a disclosure button to provide additional choices in a dialog.** In particular, the disclosure button is the appropriate choice when the additional choices are directly related to selections that are offered in a pop-up or command pop-down menu in a dialog. When users click the disclosure button the dialog expands to reveal selectionsin addition to those listed in the pop-up or command pop-down menu. (For more information about how to use a disclosure button in your dialog, see ["Disclosure](#page-288-0) Button" (page 289).)  
**Use a disclosure triangle to reveal details that elaborate on the primary information in a dialog.** When users open the disclosure triangle the dialog expands, revealing additional information and, if appropriate, extra functionality. (For more information about how to use a disclosure triangle in your dialog,see ["Disclosure](#page-287-0) [Triangle"](#page-287-0) (page 288).)  
**Respond appropriately when users can resize a dialog that contains columns of data.** If users can resize a dialog that displays columns (such as the Open dialog), the columns should grow and additional columns should appear. All other elements should remain the same size and be anchored to the right, center, or left side of the dialog.