<!-- Chunk 74 | Source: 2013 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 951 -->
As early as possible in the design process, build in support for internationalization and localization so that as many people as possible can use your app. Internationalization and localization can take a significant amount of time to do well; follow the guidelines in this section to help streamline the process. To get more details about internationalization and localization, read *Internationalization Programming Topics*.  
**Plan to localize visible UI elements.** That is, make sure the UI elements in your app can be translated into other languages and otherwise adapted for use in other countries. Note that when you use the Auto Layout, you can specify how text and other UI elements are related so that localizers don't have to redesign your layout to accommodate different lengths of text. To learn more about the advantages of Auto Layout, see "Cocoa Auto Layout" in *Mac Technology Overview*.  
In addition to translating text, be prepared to adjust your use of color, graphics, and representations of time and money. Examine your use ofspecific objects orsymbols(such as electrical outlets and the currency symbol) as they may have a different appearance, or not be understood, in other countries.  
**Pay attention to the possible meanings of the graphics and symbols in your app.** Make sure your graphics and symbols are unambiguous and inoffensive to all, or prepare to localize them. For example, if you use images of American holidays to represent seasons—such as Christmas trees, pumpkins, or fireworks—be sure to localize them for cultures that are not familiar with those holidays.  
**Be aware of the user's locale preferences.** In the Formats pane of Language & Text preferences, OS X allows users to customize the way dates, times, and number-based data (such as monetary values or measurements) are displayed. Most APIstake these preferencesinto account when getting or formatting thistype of information, so you should not have to perform custom formatting or conversion tasks.  
**Support different address formats.** Don't assume that all of the user's contacts have addresses that are in the same format as the user's address. Contacts helps users keep track of contacts all over the world by supporting different regions and allowing customization of any format. If you support or display Contacts data, be prepared to handle different address formats and postal code information.  
**Make your text easy to translate.** Translating text is a sophisticated, delicate task. Avoid using colloquial phrases or nonstandard usage and syntax that can be difficult to translate. Carefully choose words for menu commands, dialogs, and help text. Be aware that text in U.S. English can grow up to 50 percent longer when translated to other languages.  
**Use complete sentences in string resources whenever possible.** Grammar problems may arise when you concatenate multiple strings to create sentences; the word order may become completely different in another language, rendering the message nonsensical when translated. For example, word order in German sometimes places the verb at the end of a sentence. For more information on handling text in other languages, see "Guidelines for Internationalization".  
**As much as possible, identify the logical flow of content and use that to determine the layout of your UI.** For example, the more important or higher level objects are usually placed near the upper left of a window that is designed for regions associated with left-to-right languages. In a version of the window that targets users who read right-to-left languages, it makes sense to reverse this layout. The more you can characterize user interface objects according to their logical, not visual, position, the more easily you can extend your app to other markets.