<!-- Chunk 76 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 593 -->
- <span id="page-67-6"></span><span id="page-67-3"></span>■ **Filename extension hiding:** Mac OS X 10.1 introduces per-file hiding of filename extensions. For more information, see ["Filename Extension Hiding"](#page-24-0) [\(page 25\).](#page-24-0) If your application creates documents, new document titles should reflect the user's preference. This feature is described in context in ["Saving,](#page-100-0)  [Closing, and Quitting Behavior" \(page 101\)](#page-100-0).
- **Window layering:** In Mac OS 9 and earlier, all windows belonging to a particular application are in the same layer. In Mac OS X, each document exists in its own layer, so documents from different applications can be interleaved. Clicking a window to bring it to the front doesn't disturb the layering of any other window.  
<span id="page-67-4"></span>A window's depth in the layers is determined by when the window was last accessed. You can bring all windows of a given application forward by clicking the application's icon in the Dock or by choosing Bring All to Front in the application's Window menu.  
To ensure that alerts and other dialogs don't get lost amidst windows from different applications, and to provide greater modelessness, Mac OS X introduces a new type of dialog called *sheets*. See ["Document-Modal Dialogs](#page-92-0)  [\(Sheets\)" \(page 93\).](#page-92-0)  
- **Click-through:** In Mac OS X, the user can activate many items on an inactive window with a single click, rather than having to click once to activate the window and again to activate the item. For more information, see ["Click-Through" \(page 78\)](#page-77-3).
- **Drawers:** A drawer is a child window that slides out from a parent window, and which the user can open or close (reveal or hide). For more information, see ["Drawers" \(page 85\)](#page-84-3).
- <span id="page-67-7"></span><span id="page-67-5"></span><span id="page-67-2"></span><span id="page-67-1"></span>■ **Window controls:** The standard window controls—the close box, zoom box, scroll bars, and so on—have been redesigned in Aqua. In Mac OS X, the window shade feature is replaced by the minimize button, which puts the window in the Dock. Users can also double-click a window's title bar to put it in the Dock. Moving and resizing a window displays the actual window at all times, rather than the outline displayed in Mac OS 9.