<!-- Chunk 40 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 625 -->
<span id="page-35-2"></span>Millions of people have some type of disability or special need, and computers hold tremendous promise for increasing these people's productivity. Many countries, including the United States, have laws mandating that certain equipment provide access for users with a disability.  
It's a good idea to build in support for universal access from the beginning of your design process rather than having to add it after your product is done.When you think about designing for the wide range of abilities in your target audience, think about increasing productivity for the entire audience; be careful not to overcompensate for the special needs of certain members. Don't let accommodations for a particular disability create a burden for people who do not have that disability.  
Mac OS X has many built-in functions designed to accommodate people with special needs. Users can access these functions in the Universal Access pane of System Preferences (introduced in Mac OS X 10.1).  
#### **Important**  
<span id="page-35-3"></span>Your application should not override any of the accessibility features built into Mac OS X, such as the ability to access all interface functions using the keyboard instead of the mouse, or any preference that a user might select to assist with a disability.  
In general, if you follow the design principles in this chapter, and the guidelines in the rest of this book, you will meet the needs of most of your users. Here are several specific accessibility requirements you should be aware of:  
- The frequency of a blinking item or display must not be in the range of 2 hertz to 55 hertz, inclusive (to prevent medical complications such as seizures that can be induced in some people with blinking lights).
- When a timed response is required—such as notification that a regularly scheduled action is about to take place—at least one response method that does not require users to respond within the timed interval should be provided. Alternatively, at least one method that allows users to adjust the response time to at least 5 times the default setting should be provided.
- Alerts or other critical feedback should be provided in both audio and visual formats.  
The following sections describe the main categories of disabilities and gives suggestions for specific design solutions and adaptations you can make. Keep in mind that there is a wide range of disabilities within each category, and many people have multiple disabilities.