<!-- Chunk 98 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 450 -->
- <span id="page-90-5"></span>■ **Filename extension hiding:** Mac OS X 10.1 introduces per-file hiding of filename extensions. For more information, see ["Filename Extension Hiding"](#page-24-0) [\(page 25\).](#page-24-0) This feature is also described in context in ["Saving, Closing, and](#page-100-1)  [Quitting Behavior" \(page 101\).](#page-100-1) Many of the behaviors described occur automatically with the Mac OS X Save dialog.
- **Sheets:** A sheet is a new type of dialog that is attached to a particular document or window, ensuring that the user never loses track of which window the dialog applies to. The ability to keep a dialog attached to its pertinent window enables users to take full advantage of the Mac OS X window layering model and also  
- <span id="page-91-5"></span>encourages modelessness; users can work on other documents or in other applications while a sheet is open. For more information, see ["Document-Modal](#page-92-1)  [Dialogs \(Sheets\)" \(page 93\)](#page-92-1).
- **Application icon in alerts:** To help the user identify which application an alert belongs to, all alerts should display the application's icon. In rare cases, when there is a critical need to warn the user of a potentially data-damaging operation, the alert can display the caution icon (an exclamation point in a triangle) with the application icon.
- <span id="page-91-3"></span><span id="page-91-2"></span>■ **Modality:** There are very few situations in Mac OS X where a dialog must be addressed before the user is allowed to do anything else on the system. The vast majority of dialogs should be either application modal (the user must address the dialog before doing anything else in the application) or document modal (a sheet), not system modal. All modal dialogs should be movable.