<!-- Chunk 99 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 464 -->
<span id="page-91-6"></span>Your Mac OS X application can use these types of dialogs:  
- <span id="page-91-4"></span>■ **Modeless:** Enables users to change settings in a dialog while still interacting with document windows; the "find and replace" feature in many word processors is an example of a modeless dialog. Modeless dialogs have title bar controls (close, minimize, and zoom buttons).
- **Document modal:** Prevents the user from doing anything else within a particular document. The user can switch to other documents in the application, and to other applications. Document-modal dialogs should be sheets, which are discussed in ["Document-Modal Dialogs \(Sheets\)" \(page 93\)](#page-92-1).
- <span id="page-91-1"></span>■ **Application modal:** Prevents the user from doing anything else within the owner application; the user can still switch applications. Most application-modal dialogs do not have the standard title bar controls (close, minimize, zoom); the user dismisses these dialogs by clicking a push button, such as OK or Cancel. Application-modal dialogs that appear as the result of the user choosing a command, such as the Open dialog in Figure 6-4 (page 100), should display a title that matches the command.  
Alerts can be either document modal or application modal. If the error condition or notification applies to a single document, the alert should be documental modal (a sheet). See the Save Changes alert in Figure 6-7 (page 106) for an example. If the alert applies to the state of the application as a whole, or to more than one document or window belonging to that application, the alert should be application modal. Both the Review Changes alert for multiple unsaved documents (Figure 6-10 (page 108)) and the Save Changes alert for applications that are not document-based (Figure 6-8 (page 107)) are application modal.