<!-- Chunk 15 | Source: 2008-11 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 357 -->
When possible, model your application's objects and actions on objects and actions in the real world. This technique especially helps novice users quickly grasp how your application works. Folders are a classic software metaphor. People file things in folders in the real world, so they immediately understand the idea of putting data into folders on a computer.  
Metaphors in iPhone OS include iPod playback controls, tapping controls to make things happen, sliding on-off switches, and flicking through the data shown on picker wheels.  
Although metaphors suggest a use for objects and actions in the iPhone OS interface, that use does not limit the software implementation of the metaphor. To return to the folder example, a folder object implemented in software has a capacity that's completely unrelated to the physical capacity of its real-word counterpart.  
<span id="page-30-2"></span>As you design your application, be aware of the metaphors that exist in iPhone OS and don't redefine them. At the same time, examine the task your application performs to see if there are natural metaphors you can use. Bear in mind, though, that it's better to use standard controls and actions than to stretch a real-world object or action just to fit your application's user interface. Unless the metaphors you choose are likely to be recognized by most of your users, including them will increase confusion instead of decrease it.