<!-- Chunk 44 | Source: 2008-11 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 2096 -->
Alerts, action sheets, and modal views are all modal, which means that users must explicitly dismiss them, by tapping a button, before they can continue to use the application. Although there are times when you need to warn users of potentially dangerous actions or provide extra choices, it'simportant to avoid overusing these views. This is because:  
- All types of modal views interrupt the user's workflow.
- The too-frequent appearance of a view requesting confirmation or acknowledgment is likely to be more annoying than helpful.  
Alerts, in particular, should be used only rarely. When alerts appear too frequently, users are likely to dismiss them without reading them, just to get them out of the way.  
Alerts, action sheets, and modal views are designed to communicate different things:  
- Alerts give users important information that affects their use of the application (or the device). Alerts are usually unexpected, because they generally tell users about a problem or a change in the current situation that might require users to take action.
- Action sheets give users additional choices related to the action they are currently taking. Users learn to expect the appearance of an action sheet when they tap a toolbar button that begins either a potentially destructive action (such as deleting all recent calls) or an action that can be completed in different ways (such as a send action for which users can specify one of several destinations).
- Modal views provide more extensive functionality in the context of the current task or provide a way to perform a subtask directly related to the user's workflow.  
These types of views also differ in appearance and behavior, which underscoresthe difference in the messages they send. Because users are accustomed to the appearance and behavior of these views, it's important to use them consistently and correctly in your application. Read the following sections to learn more about using alerts, action sheets, and modal views.  
#### <span id="page-69-0"></span>Using Alerts  
An alert pops up in the middle of the application screen and floats above its views to give users critical information in a highly visible way. The unattached appearance of an alert emphasizes the fact that its arrival is due to some change in the application or the device, not necessarily as the result of the user's most recent action. An alert should display text that explains the situation and, ideally, give users a way to choose an appropriate course of action.  
Users are accustomed to seeing alertsfrom the device or from built-in applicationsthat run in the background, such as Text, but you should seldom need to use them in your application. For example, you might use an alert to tell users that the task they initiated is blocked. It makes sense to display an alert with this message, because it's important to tell users what the problem is and give them a choice of ways to handle it.  
You can also use an alert to give users a chance to accept or reject an outcome that is potentially dangerous. When this is the case, the alert should display two buttons: one that dismisses the alert and performs the action and one that dismisses the alert without performing the action. Often, it makes sense to use the label "Cancel" for the button that dismisses the alert without performing the action. Note that if users press the Home button while such an alert is visible, the result should be identical to tapping the Cancel button; that is, the alert is dismissed and the action is not performed.  
The infrequency with which alerts appear helps users take them seriously. Be sure to minimize the number of alerts your application displays and ensure that each one offers critical information and useful choices. In general, try to avoid creating alerts that:  
- Update users on tasks that are progressing normally. Instead, consider using a progress view or an activity indicator to provide progress-related feedback to users (these controls are described in ["Progress](#page-95-0) Views" (page 96) and "Activity [Indicators"](#page-88-1) (page 89)).
- Ask for confirmation of user-initiated actions. To get confirmation for an action the user initiated, even a potentially risky action such as deleting a contact, you should use an action sheet (described next in "Using Action [Sheets"](#page-70-0) (page 71)).
- Inform users of errors or problems about which they can do nothing.  
Although it might be necessary to use an alert to tell users about a critical problem they can't fix, it's better to integrate such information into the user interface, if possible. For example, instead of telling users every time a server connection fails, display the time of the last successful connection.  
#### <span id="page-70-0"></span>Using Action Sheets  
An action sheet displays a collection of alternatives that are associated with a task users initiate by tapping a button in an application's toolbar. An action sheet is an appropriate way to:  
- Provide a selection of ways the task can be completed. In Photos, for example, users can tap the Send button when viewing an individual photo. An action sheet appears, giving users a choice of three destinations for the photo (in addition to a Cancel button, which cancels the send).
- It's useful to display an action sheet in a situation like this, because it allows you to provide a range of choices that make sense in the context of the current task, without giving these choices a permanent place in the user interface.
- Get confirmation before completing a potentially dangerous task. For example, depending on Mail settings, an action sheet appears when users tap the Trash button in the Mail toolbar, allowing them to proceed with the deletion or cancel it.
- When you display an action sheet in a situation like this you ensure that users understand the dangerous effects of the step they're about to take and you can provide some alternatives. This type of communication is particularly important on iPhone OS–based devices because sometimes users tap controls without meaning to.  
An action sheet always emerges from the bottom of the application screen and hovers over its views (as shown in the far left of [Figure](#page-68-2) 7-1 (page 69)). Unlike an alert, however, the side edges of an action sheet are anchored to the sides of the screen, reinforcing its connection to the application and the user's most recent action.  
<span id="page-70-1"></span>An action sheet contains a few buttons that allow users to choose how to complete their task. You should not have to add a message to an action sheet because the button labels, in conjunction with the task being performed,should provide enough context for the user to understand their choices. When userstap a button, the action sheet disappears. Because an action sheet should provide users with a choice of actions, an action sheet always provides more than one button.  
#### Using Modal Views  
A modal view slides up from the bottom edge of the screen and always covers the entire application screen (as shown in the middle of [Figure](#page-68-2) 7-1 (page 69)). Because a modal view hides the current application screen, it strengthens the user's perception of entering a different, transient mode in which they can accomplish something.  
A modal view can display text if appropriate, and contains the controls necessary to perform the task. In addition, a modal view generally displays a button that completes the task and dismisses the view, and a Cancel button users can tap to abandon the task.  
A modal view supports more extensive user interaction than an action sheet. Unlike an action sheet, which accepts a single choice, a modal view supports multistep user interaction, such as the selection of more than one option or the inputting of information.  
Use a modal view when you need to offer the ability to accomplish a self-contained task related to your application's primary function. A modal view is especially appropriate for a multistep subtask that requires user interface elements that don't belong in the main application user interface all the time. A good example of a modal view is the compose view in Mail. When users tap the Compose button, a modal view appears that contains text areas for the addresses and message, a keyboard for input, a Cancel, and a Send button.