<!-- Chunk 12 | Source: 2008-11 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 475 -->
If you have an existing computer application, don't just port it to iPhone OS. People use iPhone OS–based devices very differently than they use desktop and laptop computers, and they have different expectations for the user experience.  
Remember that people use iPhone OS–based devices while on the go, and often in environments filled with distractions. This generally means that they want to open your application, use it briefly, and move on to something else. If your application relies on the user's undivided attention for long stretches of time, you need to rethink its structure and goals if you want to bring it to iPhone OS.  
If your desktop application enables a complex task or set of tasks, examine how people use it in order to find a couple of subtasks they might appreciate being able to accomplish while they're mobile. For example, a business-oriented application that supports project scheduling, billing, and expense reporting could spawn an iPhone utility application thatshows progresssummariesfor a project, or an iPhone productivity application that allows mobile users to keep track of their business-related expenses.  
As you think about how to bring ideas from your desktop application to an iPhone application, apply the 80-20 rule to the design of your application. Estimate that the largest percentage of users(at least 80 percent) will use a very limited number of features in an application, while only a small percentage (no more than 20 percent) will use all the features. Then, consider carefully whether you want to load your iPhone application with the power features that only a small percentage of users want. Be aware that a desktop computer application might be the better environment in which to offer those features, and that it's usually a good idea to focus your iPhone application on the features that meet the needs of the greatest number of people.