<!-- Chunk 24 | Source: 2008-11 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1337 -->
People use their fingers to operate the unique Multi-Touch interface of iPhone OS–based devices, tapping, flicking, and pinching to select, navigate, and read web content and use applications. There are real advantages to using fingersto operate a device: They are always available, they are capable of many different movements, and they give users a sense of immediacy and connection to the device that's impossible to achieve with an external input device, such as a mouse.  
However, fingers have one major disadvantage: They are much bigger than a mouse pointer, regardless of their size, their shape, or the dexterity of their owner. In the context of a display screen, fingers can never be as precise as a mouse pointer. Additionally, there are some actions users can take with the combination of a mouse and keyboard that are difficult to replicate using fingers alone. These actions include text selection, drag-and-drop operations, and cut, copy, and paste actions.  
Fortunately, you can meet the challenges of a finger-based input system by having a good user interface design. For the most part, this means making sure your layout accommodates the average size of a fingertip and by finding alternatives to drag-and-drop and cut, copy, and paste. It also means responding to finger movements with the actions users expect.  
Users perform specific movements, called **gestures**, to get particular results. For example, users tap a button to select it and flick or drag to scroll a long list. iPhone users understand these gestures because the built-in applications use them consistently. To benefit from users' familiarity, therefore, and to avoid confusing them, you should use these gestures appropriately in your application.  
The more complex gestures,such asswipe or pinch open, are also used consistently in the built-in applications, but they are less common. In general these gestures are used as shortcuts to expedite a task, not as the only way to perform a task. When viewing a list of messages in Mail, for example, users delete a message by revealing and then tapping the Delete button in the preview row for the message. Users can reveal the Delete button in two different ways:  
- Tap the Edit button in the navigation bar, which reveals a delete control in each preview row. Then, tap the delete control in a specific preview row to reveal the Delete button for that message.
- Make the swipe gesture across a specific preview row to reveal the Delete button for that message.  
The first method takes an extra step, but is easily discoverable because it requires only the tap and begins with the clearly labeled Edit button. The second method is faster, but it requires the user to learn and remember the more specialized swipe gesture.  
To ensure that your application is discoverable and easy to use, therefore, try to limit the gestures you require to the most familiar, that is, tap and drag. You should also avoid making one of the less common gestures, such as swipe or pinch open, the only way to perform an action. There should always be a simple, straightforward way to perform an action, even if it means an extra tap or two.  
In most applications, it's equally important to avoid defining new gestures, especially if these gestures perform actions users already associate with the standard gestures. The primary exception to this recommendation is an immersive application, in which custom gestures can be appropriate. For example, a productivity application that requires users to make a circular gesture to reveal the Delete button in a table row would be confusing and difficult to use. On the other hand, a game might reasonably require usersto make a circular gesture to spin a game piece.  
<span id="page-41-0"></span>Table 3-1 lists the standard gestures users can perform. Be sure to avoid redefining the meaning of these gestures; conversely, if you support these actions in your application, be sure to respond appropriately to the gestures that correspond to them. For more information on how to handle events created by gestures, see *iPhone Application Programming Guide*.  
**Table 3-1** Gestures users make to interact with iPhone OS–based devices  
| Gesture        | Action                                                                                       |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Tap            | To press or select a control or item (analogous to a single mouse click).                    |
| Drag           | To scroll or pan.                                                                            |
| Flick          | To scroll or pan quickly.                                                                    |
| Swipe          | In a table-view row, to reveal the Delete button.                                            |
| Double tap     | To zoom in and center a block of content or an image.<br>To zoom out (if already zoomed in). |
| Pinch open     | To zoom in.                                                                                  |
| Pinch close    | To zoom out.                                                                                 |
| Touch and hold | In editable text, to display a magnified view for cursor positioning.                        |