<!-- Chunk 164 | Source: 2004-08 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 641 -->
In general, all changes a user makes in a dialog should appear to take effect immediately. There are three possible opportunities for data validation in a dialog:  
- 1. When the user types data
- 2. When the user moves out of a data field (by pressing Tab, for example)
- <span id="page-138-4"></span>3. When the user clicks a button to apply changes  
It is your responsibility to make the three states as clear as possible to the user. For example, checkboxes and radio buttons update immediately and display the appropriate results.  
You need to decide when your application does error checking of user input. Possible approaches:  
- Evaluate the input and check for errors as the user tabs from one field to the next. The drawback is that it isn't clear to the user that the changes are taking effect as he or she tabs among items. The user doesn't click a button, and so isn't aware of completing an action.
- Save user input in a queue and apply it when the user clicks a button, closes the dialog, or switches to another application. If your application waits to check user-input errors until the user tries to dismiss the dialog, you may have to present an alert, thereby forcing the user to revisit the dialog. If you do error checking as the user enters input, it takes more time up front, but you can warn the user immediately when invalid data is entered.  
In most cases, validating input after each keystroke is annoying and unnecessary. It's better to design your interface to automatically disallow invalid input. For example, your application could automatically convert lowercase characters to uppercase when appropriate.  
In addition to error checking, you need to decide when to apply user input. In some cases, changes can take effect immediately—for example, View Options for Finder windows. In other cases, it may be appropriate to wait until the user performs an action, such as clicking an Apply button.  
In a dialog that has multiple panes (selected by buttons, tabs, or a pop-up menu), avoid validating data when a user switches from one pane to another.  
Finally, you need to determine whether your application should automatically perform an operation based on user input or whether the user should initiate the operation, for example, by clicking a button. It's acceptable to automatically perform an operation that completes quickly and returns user control within a couple of seconds. For an operation that takes a longer time to execute, it's best to warn the user of the estimated time required and let the user initiate it.