<!-- Chunk 155 | Source: 2004-08 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 471 -->
<span id="page-132-6"></span>Mac OS X applications can use these types of dialogs:  
- **Modeless.**Enables users to change settings in a dialog while still interacting with document windows; the Find window in many word processors is an example of a modeless dialog. Modeless dialogs have title bar controls (close, minimize, and zoom buttons).
- <span id="page-132-4"></span>■ **Document modal.** Prevents the user from doing anything else within a particular document. The user can switch to other documents in the application and to other applications. Document-modal dialogs should be sheets, which are discussed in ["Document-Modal Dialogs](#page-133-0) [\(Sheets\)"](#page-133-0) (page 134).
- **Application modal.** Prevents the user from doing anything else within the owner application; the user can switch to another application. Most application-modal dialogs do not have the standard title bar controls (close, minimize, zoom); the user dismisses these dialogs by clicking a push button, such as OK or Cancel. Application-modal dialogs that appear as the result of the user choosing a command, such as the Open dialog in [Figure 9-8](#page-141-1) (page 142), should display a title that matches the command.  
An alert can be document modal or application modal. If the error condition or notification applies to a single document, the alert should be document modal (a sheet). See the Save Changes alert in [Figure 9-12](#page-146-2) (page 147) for an example. If the alert applies to the state of the application as a whole, or to more than one document or window belonging to that application, the alert should be application modal. Both the Review Changes alert for multiple unsaved documents ( [Figure 9-14](#page-147-2) (page 148)) and the Save Changes alert for applications that are not document-based ( [Figure 9-13](#page-147-3) (page 148)) are application modal.