<!-- Chunk 112 | Source: 2004-08 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 630 -->
**About** *ApplicationName***.** Opens your application's About window, which contains copyright information and version number. (For more information, see ["The About Window"](#page-127-0) (page 128). If you've specified a short name (see ["The Application Menu Title"](#page-86-3) (page 87)), use it in the About menu item; use the full application name in the About window.  
<span id="page-87-6"></span>**Preferences (Command-,).** Opens a preference window for your application. See *Apple Software Design Guidelines* for more information on preferences in Mac OS X.  
<span id="page-87-7"></span>In the application menu, put all commands that provide access to your application's preference dialogs first, followed by application-specific items. Put a menu separator between the About command and the Preferences command. If your application provides document-specific preferences, make them available in the File menu (see ["The File Menu"](#page-87-0) (page 88)). Most document-specific preferences should have a unique name, such as Page Setup, rather than Preferences.  
<span id="page-87-3"></span>**Services.** The Services submenu provides a way for one application to offer its capabilities to another application. See *Apple Software Design Guidelines* for more information on services.  
<span id="page-87-4"></span>**Hide** *ApplicationName* **(Command-H).** Hides all of the windows of the currently running application and brings the most recently used application to the foreground. If necessary, use the short application title (see ["The Application Menu Title"](#page-86-3) (page 87)).  
<span id="page-87-8"></span><span id="page-87-5"></span>**Hide Others (Command-Option-H).** Hides the windows of all the other applications currently running.  
**Show All.** Shows all windows of all currently running applications.  
<span id="page-87-2"></span>**Quit** *ApplicationName* **(Command-Q).** This last item in the application menu should be preceded by a separator. When a user chooses Quit and there are unsaved documents, present the necessary alerts (see ["Dialogs for Saving, Closing, and Quitting"](#page-142-0) (page 143)). If necessary, use the short application name (see ["The Application Menu Title"](#page-86-3) (page 87)).  
<span id="page-87-10"></span><span id="page-87-9"></span><span id="page-87-0"></span>You may include other application-specific menu items between the Preferences and Services menu items. Don't include a Help menu item however, this belongs in the Help menu.