<!-- Chunk 12 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines (Preliminary).pdf | Est. Tokens: 1240 -->
To help you identify areas of an existing application that need attention, this section highlights new elements introduced in Aqua, and how the Aqua interface differs from that of Mac OS 9. When relevant, each chapter also begins with a "what's new" section that describes major differences between Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X.  
- **The Dock:** Designed to help combat onscreen clutter and aid in organizing work, the Dock displays an icon for each open application and minimized document, as well as website links and commonly used items such as System Preferences and the Trash. Dock icons display documents in preview mode. The Dock replaces the Mac OS 9 Application (Process) menu. For more information, see ["Clicking an Icon in the Dock" \(page 64\).](#page-63-1)
- <span id="page-20-2"></span>■ **Sheets:** A sheet is a dialog "attached" to a specific window, ensuring that the user never loses track of which window the dialog belongs to. The ability to keep a dialog attached to its pertinent window enables users to take full advantage of the Mac OS X window layering model. Sheets also promote modelessness; users  
New in Aqua **21**  
#### Overview of Aqua  
<span id="page-21-6"></span><span id="page-21-5"></span>can continue to work in other documents or applications because they don't have to address the dialog immediately. For more information, see ["Document-Modal Dialogs \(Sheets\)" \(page 72\)](#page-71-1).  
- **Window layering:** In Mac OS 9 and earlier, all windows belonging to a particular application are in the same layer. In Mac OS X, document windows and each application's main window are in their own layers, so documents from different applications can be interleaved. Clicking a window to bring it to the front doesn't disturb the layering of any other window.
- **Icons:** Graphic limitations of earlier operating systems constrained icons to a two-dimensional style. Mac OS X icons, on the other hand, are "photo-illustrative": they approach photo-realism while still providing the flexibility of stylized illustrations.  
<span id="page-21-3"></span><span id="page-21-2"></span>A new concept in Mac OS X is classifying applications by role; for example, user applications, utilities, and administrator's tools. Each icon genre has its own icon style. When icons are next to one another—in the Dock, for example—the user can easily classify them because of their visually distinct genre category. For more information, see ["Icon Genres" \(page 156\)](#page-155-0).  
- **Drawers:** A drawer is a "subwindow" that slides out from a parent window, and which the user can open or close (reveal or hide). A drawer contains controls that are tightly linked to the controls in its parent window. Drawers are available only to Cocoa applications. For more information, see ["Drawers" \(page 65\)](#page-64-1).
- **List and column view:** The Data Browser is a new component that provides standard, easily customized list and column views (it replaces the List Manager in Mac OS 8.6 and Mac OS 9). Available to Carbon applications, the Data Browser gives you a convenient way to provide a consistent user experience for lists; standard keyboard shortcuts and Aqua compliance are built-in. For more information, see ["Tools for Creating Lists" \(page 110\).](#page-109-0)
- <span id="page-21-1"></span>■ **Controls:** All controls have a new appearance in Aqua. New controls include round buttons for navigation and combination boxes (pop-up menus that also allow for user input). See ["Controls and Layout Guidelines" \(page 89\).](#page-88-0)
- <span id="page-21-4"></span>■ **Menus:** There's a new Window menu. Dynamic menus now work while open (commands can be toggled with the Option key). Sticky menus remain open without timing out. For more information, see ["Menus" \(page 33\)](#page-32-0).
- <span id="page-21-0"></span>■ **Help Tags:** Help Tags replace Balloon Help as the mechanism for answering "what's that?" interface questions. For more information, see ["Help Tags"](#page-175-1)  [\(page 176\).](#page-175-1)  
#### Overview of Aqua  
- **Fonts:** The default system font is Lucida Grande, rather than Chicago or Charcoal. Application developers should note that many of the standard Mac OS 9 fonts have been removed from Mac OS X. For more information, see ["Fonts" \(page 153\)](#page-152-0).
- <span id="page-22-1"></span><span id="page-22-0"></span>■ **Keyboard commands:** There are several new reserved keyboard equivalents, including Command-H for "Hide <appName>" and Command-M for Minimize. For more information, see ["Keyboard Equivalents" \(page 138\)](#page-137-0).  
New in Aqua **23**  
Overview of Aqua  
<span id="page-24-3"></span><span id="page-24-2"></span><span id="page-24-0"></span>Products from Apple Computer are designed using a number of basic principles of human-computer interaction. This chapter presents these principles. Keep these considerations in mind as you design your product.