<!-- Chunk 82 | Source: 1995 Macintosh Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 613 -->
Do the following when the test is over:  
- <sup>n</sup> Explain what you were trying to find out during the test.
- <sup>n</sup> Answer any remaining questions the participant may have.
- <sup>n</sup> Discuss any interesting behaviors you would like the participant to explain.
- <sup>n</sup> Ask the participants for suggestions on how to improve the product.  
#### **10. Use the results.**  
As you observe, you will see users doing things you may never have expected them to do. When you see participants making mistakes, your first instinct may be to blame the mistakes on the participant's inexperience or lack of intelligence. This is the wrong focus to take. The purpose of observing users is to see what parts of your product might be difficult to use or ineffective. Therefore, if you see a participant struggling or making mistakes, you should attribute the difficulties to faulty product design, not to the participant.  
<span id="page-69-0"></span>Be sure to schedule time between your sessions to make notes and review the session. Jot down any significant points. If you used videotape or audio cassette tape, mark in your notes the specific parts of the tape that you may want to review.  
To get the most out of your test results, review all your data carefully and thoroughly (your notes, the videotape or cassette tape, the tasks, and so on). Look for places where participants had trouble and see if you can determine how your product could be changed to alleviate the problems. Look for *patterns* in the participants' behavior that might tell you whether the product was understood correctly.  
It's a good idea to keep a record of what you found out during the test. You don't need elaborate video equipment; a hand-held video camera will work. In fact, you don't even have to use video equipment. You can use a tape recorder to record what is spoken during the session. The important point is that you create some kind of objective, factual record of the session that you refer to later. That way, you'll have documentation to support your design decisions and you'll be able to see trends in users' behavior. You might want to write a report that documents the process you used and the results you found. After you've examined the results and summarized the important findings, fix the problems you found and test the product again. By testing your product more than once, you'll see how your changes affect users' performance.