<!-- Chunk 9 | Source: 2000 Adopting the Aqua Interface.pdf | Est. Tokens: 461 -->
A drawer can be revealed or hidden by the user. The sliding animation occurs during both opening and closing operations. The revealing and hiding of a drawer is normally initiated by a button, a menu command, or some other control. In cases where a drawer contains a valid drop target, you may also wish to have a drawer open if the user drags an appropriate object to where the drawer appears. A drawer can appear from either the left or right side of its parent window. You should ensure that the default position of a parent window allows its drawer to open and remain in full view without disappearing offscreen.  
When a drawer is visible, it is not larger than its parent window. This supports the illusion that the drawer is hidden behind its parent window when not visible. When the parent window is resized vertically, an open drawer resizes if necessary to ensure that it does not exceed the height of the parent window. (A drawer can, if you choose, be shorter than its parent window.) The illusion is further reinforced by the fact that the inner border of a drawer is hidden by the parent window and that the parent window's shadow is seen on the drawer when appropriate.  
The user can resize an open drawer by dragging its outside border. The degree to which a drawer can be resized is determined by the content of the drawer. If the user resizes a drawer to the point where content is significantly obscured, the drawer should simply close. For example, if a drawer contains a scrolling list, the user should be able to resize the drawer to cover up the edge of the list. But if the user makes the drawer so small that the items in the list are difficult to identify, the drawer should close. If the user sets a new size (that is allowable) for a drawer, the new size is used the next time the drawer is opened.  
New in Aqua **9**