<!-- Chunk 64 | Source: 1996 Newton 2.0 User Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 725 -->
Closing a container view makes it go away. Most views close in response to user actions. If a view has a Close box (and most views do), a user can close the view by tapping the Close box. A view may also have other controls that close it. In addition, an application should close a status slip on its own when it finishes the operation that occasioned the status slip.  
An application determines what happens visually, audibly, and logically when a user closes the application's views. The user may see a visual effect and hear a sound effect, or the view may seem simply to disappear. The Newton system determines the visual and sound effects when a user closes a notification alert, confirmation alert, or routing slip.  
#### Closing a Main View 2  
Tapping the Close box in an application's main view closes the application. The main view goes away, together with any of the application's auxiliary views that are also open.  
Because a Newton device is personal, most applications should maintain their state while closed, even if the Newton device goes to sleep or a user turns it off. An application that involves an ongoing task should save its state before closing, and it should return to that saved state the next time it opens. State information to be saved and restored includes newly and partially entered data, the positions of all movable container views (including the main view, if it is movable), and anything else the application will need to recreate what the user sees at the time the application closes.  
An application doesn't need to save and restore its state if the application involves discrete, short-term tasks—a dictionary, e-mail, and so forth.  
#### <span id="page-76-0"></span>Closing a Slip 2  
A user can close any slip except a confirmation alert by tapping the Close box at the slip's lower right corner. The slip goes away, and the application accepts any changes a user made in the slip unless the slip has a take-action button next to the Close box (as described in ["Slips" on page 2-15](#page-58-0)). If a user taps a take-action button, such as Do or Find, the slip goes away and the application initiates the named action with the settings the user made in the slip. If a user taps a Close box that is next to a take-action button, the slip goes away and the application does not initiate the named action.  
To close a confirmation alert a user taps the OK button (or other affirmative button) to authorize the pending action, or taps Cancel (or equivalent) to cancel the action.  
#### Closing a Drawer 2  
A user can close a drawer by tapping its Close box. Alternatively, a user can close a drawer that has no other views open in front of it by tapping the same button that opened the drawer. If a drawer is open but another view is in front of it, tapping the drawer's button twice closes the drawer. (The first tap brings the drawer to the front.)