<!-- Chunk 148 | Source: 1996 Newton 2.0 User Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 475 -->
Users can edit their input with a common set of gestures (see ["Editing" on](#page-188-0)  [page 6-21](#page-188-0)). In addition, tapping the Undo button reverses the effect of a user's most recent action. Tapping Undo a second time undoes the undo.  
The Newton interface elements provide undo capabilities for most user input. This includes writing, drawing, typing, correcting, editing, selecting a radio button, tapping a checkbox, setting a slider, and choosing from a picker of a labeled input line or expando.  
Your application provides all other undo capabilities. For example, if a user chooses an item from an ordinary picker (not one that's part of a labeled input line or expando), your application is responsible for letting the user undo the choice by tapping the Undo button. Undo should apply to a single recent action, not to a set of actions. Users should be able to undo individual actions taken in a slip, but once the slip is closed there is nothing to undo.  
You don't need to enable undo for every user action. In general, you should enable undo for actions that change data. You generally do not need to enable undo for actions that change the view of data or the environment, such as scrolling. From a user's standpoint, the most desirable actions to have reversed by the Undo button are the actions that would be most difficult to reverse manually. You should consider the needs of your audience when deciding which actions can be undone.  
Error Handling **6-37**  
When a user initiates an action that can't be undone and could be very difficult to reverse by hand, your application should warn the user and give the user a chance to cancel the action. For example, if a user is about to change a lot of text with a search-and-replace operation that can't be undone, display a confirmation slip that says something to the effect of, "OK to make this change? (Can't undo)."