<!-- Chunk 274 | Source: 2009 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 719 -->
A **scrolling list** is a list that uses scroll bars to reveal its contents. Users can scroll through the list without selecting anything, click an item to select it, use Shift-click to select more than one contiguous item, or use Command-click for a discontinuous selection. Users can press the arrow keys to navigate through the list and can quickly select an item by typing the first few characters. You can see this behavior in a Finder window, when the Finder is in column-view mode. Each Finder-window column behaves as a scrolling list, as shown in [Figure](#page-334-0) 15-81 (page 335).  
#### Scrolling List Usage  
Use a scrolling list when you need to display an arbitrarily large number of itemsfrom which users can choose. Although scrolling lists aren't directly editable, you can provide editing functionality that allows users to provide list items you feed into the list.  
Don't use a scrolling list to provide choices in a limited range. This is because a scrolling list might not display all items at once, which can make it difficult for users to grasp the scope of their choices. If you need to display a limited range of choices, a pop-up menu (described in ["Pop-Up](#page-288-0) Menus" (page 289)) might be a better choice.  
#### <span id="page-327-3"></span>Scrolling List Contents and Labeling  
A scrolling list can get its contents from items you supply or from users. If an item is too long to fit in the list box, insert an ellipsis in the middle and preserve the beginning and end of the item. Users often add version numbers to the end of document names, so both the beginning and end should be visible.  
The background of a scrolling list can be white or white striped with blue. If the list contains a large number of items that can look similar at a glance, it might be easier for users to view them on a striped background.  
In most cases, it's a good idea to provide an introductory label for a scrolling list so users understand the types of items that are available to them. Use the regular system font for this label. The list items should be in view font (12-point Lucida Grande Regular), by default.  
#### Scrolling List Specifications  
<span id="page-328-4"></span>**Control sizes**: You determine the size of a scrolling list. As a rule of thumb, make sure that the list displays only the full height of lines of text (don't cut text off horizontally), and make sure that the scrolling increment is one list element.  
#### Scrolling List Implementation  
Scrolling lists are available in Interface Builder. Start with a table view object and ensure that it is sized so that only the vertical scroller is displayed. Then, in the Attributes pane of the inspector, set the number of columnsto 1 and deselect the Headers checkbox. To create a scrolling list using Application Kit programming interfaces, use the NSTableView class.