<!-- Chunk 62 | Source: 2009 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 557 -->
<span id="page-62-2"></span><span id="page-62-1"></span>Here are some tips to help your application integrate well with the Finder:  
- <span id="page-62-4"></span>● Make sure your application bundle has a .app extension. The Finder looks for this extension and treats your application appropriately when it finds it. The Finder also shows or hides this extension, depending on the state of the "Show all file extensions" preference in the Advanced pane of Finder preferences.
- Package CFM applications in a bundle. Even if you develop using the CFM runtime, you can still take advantage of the bundle mechanism in Mac OS X.
- Use an information property list to communicate information to the Finder. The information property list isthe standard place to store information about your application and document types. For information on what to put in this file, see *Runtime Configuration Guidelines*.  
- <span id="page-63-4"></span>● When saving files of your own document types, be sure to give them appropriate filename extensions to ensure platform interoperability and to support the Mac OS X user experience. You can also set a file type and optionally a creator type for a file. The file and creator type codes are not strictly necessary, but they do ensure interoperability with applicationsin the Classic environment. See *File SystemOverview* for more information about filename extensions, file types, and creator types.
- <span id="page-63-3"></span>● Avoid changing the creator type of existing documents. The creator type implies a distinct sense of ownership over a file. Your application can assign a creator type for filesit creates but it is not appropriate to change creator types for documents created by other applications without the user's explicit consent. The user can still associate files with a specific application through the Info window.
- If your application produces documents in content types other than HTML, RTF, plain text, TIFF, PNG, JPEG, PDF, and QuickTime movies, you should include a Quick Look generator to convert your native document format into a format the Finder can display in Cover Flow view and a Quick Look preview. See *Quick Look Programming Guide* to learn how to do this.