<!-- Chunk 44 | Source: 2009 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1708 -->
Mac OS X system software is designed to address the complex problems you encounter when you create an application intended to be compatible with regional, linguistic, and writing systems around the globe. Be aware that your users might be more comfortable with another language or culture even if they live in your home country. It's much easier to include worldwide compatibility from the beginning of your development process than to try to incorporate support for script systems after your product development is complete. For more information, see Getting Started With [Internationalization](http://developer.apple.com/referencelibrary/GettingStarted/GS_Internationalization/index.html).  
<span id="page-46-4"></span><span id="page-46-2"></span>Before you develop software for worldwide use, consider the issues discussed in the following sections.  
#### Cultural Values  
Make sure that visible interface elements can be localized (that is, translated into other languages and otherwise adapted for use in other countries). Whenever you design a user interface, consider that various regions of the world may differ in their use of color, graphics, calendars, text, and the representation of time. Specific objects or symbols (such as electrical outlets and the currency symbol) may also have a different appearance, or not be understood, in other countries.  
Graphics can enhance your application, but an image can also be offensive to certain audiences. Cultures assign varying values and characteristics to living creatures, plants, and inanimate objects. For example, in the United Statesthe owl is a symbol of wisdom and knowledge, whereasin Central America the owl represents witchcraft and black magic. It's a good idea to avoid the use of seasons, holidays, or calendar events in software that you expect to distribute worldwide. If you include images that represent holidays or seasons—such as Christmas trees, pumpkins, or snow—be sure they can be localized.  
Different calendars are used to mark time around the world. The United States and most of Europe observe time according the Gregorian calendar. The traditional Arabic calendar, the Jewish calendar, and the Chinese calendar are lunar rather than solar. In many places, time is marked according to one calendar for business and government purposes, and another for religious events. Mac OS X allows users to select and customize the way such information is displayed in the Formats pane of International preferences. Most APIs take these locale preferences into account when getting or formatting dates, times, and number-based data, such as monetary values or measurements. In most cases, therefore, your application should not have to perform formatting or conversion tasks. See *Internationalization Programming Topics* for more information on how to handle locale-sensitive data.  
Also remember to support different address formats. Don't assume all addresses are in the native format of your country. Address Book lets users store address data for users in multiple countries. If you support or display Address Book data, you must be prepared to handle different address formats and postal code information.  
#### <span id="page-47-0"></span>Language Differences  
<span id="page-47-1"></span>Translating text is a sophisticated, delicate task. Avoid using colloquial phrases or nonstandard usage and syntax that can be difficult to translate. Carefully choose words for menu commands, dialogs, and help text. Be aware that text in U.S. English can grow up to 50 percent longer when translated to other languages.  
Use complete sentences in string resources whenever possible. Grammar problems may arise when you concatenate multiple stringsto create sentences; the word order may become completely different in another language, rendering the message nonsensical when translated. For example, word order in German sometimes places the verb at the end of a sentence. For more information on handling text in other languages, see *Internationalization Programming Topics*.  
#### <span id="page-47-5"></span><span id="page-47-3"></span>Text Display and Text Editing  
Writing systems differ in the direction in which their characters and lines flow, the size of the character set used, and whether certain characters are context-dependent. Mac OS X supports Unicode, a single character set for most writing systems in the world. Unicode is a cross-platform, international standard for character encoding.  
<span id="page-47-4"></span>Text handling for Cocoa is entirely based on Unicode. For Carbon developers, there is a set of functions for manipulating Unicode text. For more information about Unicode support,see *Internationalization Programming Topics*.  
<span id="page-47-2"></span>No matter what level of worldwide text support you provide, it's important to keep in mind that:  
- Text isn't alwaysleft-aligned and read from left to right. Thisincludestext within controls(such as button labels), text that describes controls, and static text fields. Be aware that text translated into a right-to-left language must also be displayed as right-aligned.
- Text isn't always read by a person; it might be spoken through a screen reader.
- System and application fonts may change, so don't assume any particular font will be present. Instead, use the calls provided by your application framework.  
#### <span id="page-48-1"></span>Resources  
<span id="page-48-3"></span>It's essential to store region-dependent information in separate resource files so that user-visible text can be translated during localization without requiring your application's code to be modified.  
When creating window layouts, consider textsize, location, and direction. Textsize variesin different languages. Also, depending on the script system, the direction of the text may change. Most Middle Eastern languages read from right to left. Text location and alignment within a window should be easy to change.  
As much as possible, identify the logical flow of content and use that to determine the layout of your user interface. For example, the more important or higher level objects are usually placed near the upper left of a window that is designed for regions associated with left-to-right languages. In a version of the window that targets users who read right-to-left languages, it makes sense to reverse this layout. The more you can characterize user interface objects according to their logical, not visual, position, the more easily you can extend your application to other markets.  
<span id="page-48-0"></span>For more information on internationalization and localization, read *Internationalization Programming Topics* and visit the Apple International Technologies website at [http://developer.apple.com/intl.](http://developer.apple.com/intl)