<!-- Chunk 238 | Source: 2009 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 605 -->
Window-frame controls can change their appearance depending on the active state of the window and the enabled state of the control. The appearance of a window-frame control can also indicate whether the control supports click-through (see ["Click-Through"](#page-222-1) (page 223) to learn more about click-through). To learn more about a window's active and inactive states, see "Main, Key, and Inactive [Windows"](#page-221-1) (page 222).  
<span id="page-255-1"></span>To understand the meaning of these different appearances, it's important to consider the background (or bezel) of the control separately from the icon (or glyph) in the control. This is because the background of the control indicatesthe window's active state, whereasthe icon in the control indicates whether the control's functionality is enabled. Table 15-1 shows how the appearance of a window-frame control can change with different combinations of window state and control state.  
**Table 15-1** Window-frame control appearances, based on window state and control state  
|                                          | Active window,<br>enabled control | Active window,<br>disabled control | Inactive window,<br>enabled control | Inactive window,<br>disabled control |
|------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
| Control background<br>(bezel) appearance | Active                            | Active                             | Inactive                            | Inactive                             |
| Control icon (glyph)<br>appearance       | Enabled                           | Disabled                           | Enabled*                            | Disabled                             |  
<sup>\*</sup>In an inactive window, the icon in a control that does notsupport click-through usesthe disabled appearance, regardless of whether the control is enabled.  
**Note:** In an inactive window, the background of a capsule-style toolbar control that supports click-through changes to the active appearance when you move the pointer over it.  
You can supply a pair of icons for a window-frame control. Do this if you want to display one icon for the enabled state and a different icon for the disabled state. Otherwise, the appearance changes described in this section are automatic.