<!-- Chunk 64 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1006 -->
When you register your application with Apple Push Notification Service, you can arrange to alert users when new data arrives, even if your application isn't running. When a device receives a message for an application that isn't running, it can notify the user by:  
- Updating a badge on the application's Home screen icon
- Playing an alert sound
- Displaying an alert message  
or some combination of these. The user might respond by starting the application to manage the new data or merely acknowledging its arrival. (To learn how to handle push notifications in code, see *Apple Push Notification Service Programming Guide*.)  
**Note:** Delivery of push notifications is not guaranteed. Also, users can refuse to receive notifications system-wide. Push notifications are intended to notify users of new data, not to deliver critical data to your application.  
The Notifications section in the built-in Settings application hosts push notification settings for every application that registers for the Apple Push Notification Service. For each application, iPhone OS provides settings for users to allow or disallow badging, sounds, and alert messages.  
Take some time to think about the types of eventsfor which users would appreciate notification. A notification should give users useful, actionable information they want to receive, even when they're not using your application.  
After you've identified the events your users are likely to care about, you should also allow users to decide which events should generate what type of notification, if any. If you don't allow users to customize the push notification experience in your application, you're liable to pester users with notificationsthey're not interested in.  
Users can choose which types of notifications they want to receive, so you should support all three types:  
- **Badge**. Badging is the least intrusive way to tell users that there is new content they might be interested in. The badge is a small red oval that appears over the upper-right corner of your Home screen icon. You do not have any control over the appearance of the badge and it contains only numbers, not letters or punctuation.
- Badging works well when you want to tell users how many items are waiting for their attention. For example, the number in a badge might indicate unread messages, newly assigned tasks, or how many remote players are currently playing a game.
- **Sound**. You can supply a custom alert sound, or you can use a built-in alert sound. If you create a custom sound, be sure it is short, distinctive, and professionally produced. (To learn about the technical requirements for this sound, see "Preparing Custom Alert Sounds" in *Apple Push Notification Service Programming Guide*.) Note that you cannot force the device to vibrate when a notification is delivered; the user has control over whether alerts are accompanied by vibration.
- An easily recognized sound is ideal for situations in which the notification arrival itself provides enough information for users to act. For example, a collaborative task management system might use a unique sound to accompany the completion of a member's assignment. Merely hearing thissound tellsthe user that the assignment has been completed.
- **Alert**. An alert is the most intrusive way to notify users of new content. An alert displays your application name at the top, your message below that, and one or two buttons at the bottom. If you specify two buttons, the alert displays the Close button on the left and the View button on the right (users can tap the View button to simultaneously dismiss the alert and launch your application). If you specify one button, the alert displays an OK button. The Close button and the OK button both dismiss the alert without opening your application.
- Alerts interrupt the user's workflow, so they're best used sparingly to deliver a short, important message about an event. In particular, be sure to avoid including any advertising content in your alert message.