<!-- Chunk 18 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 474 -->
Only one iPhone application can run at a time, and third-party applications never run in the background. This means that when users switch to another application, answer the phone, or check their email, the application they were using quits. It's important to make sure that users do not experience any negative effects because of this reality. In other words, users should not feel that leaving your iPhone application and returning to it later is any more difficult than switching among applications on a computer.  
The most effective thing you can do to ensure that users have a positive application-switching experience is to pare the launch time of your application to the minimum. See *iPhone Application Programming Guide* for guidance on how to make your application's launch time as short as possible.  
In general, users quit your application by switching to another application or service on the device; they take no specific action to close your application. Therefore, do not expect users to select Quit from a menu or click a close button. This means that your application is likely to quit without much warning, so you should be prepared to save user changes as they are made, as quickly as possible. Doing so allows a fast, smooth transition between applications and ensures that your application can reflect the user's most recent changes the next time it starts.  
Another important facet of the single application model isthe way you handle application-specific preferences. On iPhone OS–based devices, users set preferences in the Settings application. Your iPhone application can supply such preferences, but this meansthat they must quit your application when they want to accessthem in Settings. If you follow the standard guidelines and offer settings that users need to set once, and then rarely, if ever, again, the user experience of your application should be smooth.