<!-- Chunk 53 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 546 -->
An iPhone application that establishes and maintains focus on its primary functionality is satisfying and enjoyable to use. As you design your application, therefore,stay focused on your product definition statement and make sure every feature and user interface element supports it. See "Create a Product [Definition](#page-34-1) [Statement"](#page-34-1) (page 35) for some advice on how to create a product definition statement.  
A good way to achieve focus is to determine what's most important in each context. As you decide what to display in each screen always ask yourself, Is this critical information or functionality users need right now? Or, to think of it in more concrete terms, Is this information or functionality the user needs while shopping in a store or while walking between meetings? If not, decide if the information or functionality is critical in a different context or if it's not that important after all. For example, an application that helps users keep track of car mileage loses focus on this functionality if it also keeps track of car dealer locations.  
When you follow the guidelines for making your application simple and easy to use, you help make your solution focused. In particular, you want to make the use of your application obvious and minimize user input. This makes it easier for users to arrive quickly at the most important parts of your application, which tightens the focus on your solution (for specifics on these guidelines, see "Build in [Simplicity](#page-35-1) and Ease of [Use"](#page-35-1) (page 36)).  
For example, the built-in Calendar application (shown in Figure 3-3) is focused on days and the events that occur on them. Users can use the clearly labeled buttonsto highlight the current day,select a viewing option, and add events. The most important information, that is, the days and the events associated with them, is the most prominent. User input is simplified by allowing users to choose from lists of event times, repetition intervals, and alert options, instead of requiring keyboard entry for all input.  
<span id="page-39-1"></span>**Figure 3-3** The built-in Calendar application is focused on days and events