<!-- Chunk 98 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 690 -->
An alert pops up in the middle of the application screen and floats above its views to give users critical information in a highly visible way. The unattached appearance of an alert emphasizes the fact that its arrival is due to some change in the application or the device, not necessarily as the result of the user's most recent action. An alert should display text that describes the situation and, ideally, give users a way to choose an appropriate course of action.  
Users are accustomed to seeing alertsfrom the device or from built-in applicationsthat run in the background, such as Messages, but you should seldom need to use them in your application. For example, you might use an alert to tell usersthat the task they initiated is blocked. It makessense to display an alert with this message, because it's important to tell users what the problem is and give them a choice of ways to handle it.  
You can also use an alert to give users a chance to accept or reject an outcome that is potentially dangerous. When this is the case, the alert should display two buttons: one that dismisses the alert and performs the action and one that dismisses the alert without performing the action. Often, it makes sense to use the label "Cancel" for the button that dismisses the alert without performing the action. Note that if users press the Home button while such an alert is visible, the result, in addition to quitting the application, should be identical to tapping the Cancel button: That is, the alert is dismissed and the action is not performed.  
The infrequency with which alerts appear helps users take them seriously. Be sure to minimize the number of alerts your application displays and ensure that each one offers critical information and useful choices. In general, try to avoid creating alerts that:  
- Update users on tasks that are progressing normally. Instead, consider using a progress view or an activity indicator to provide progress-related feedback to users (these controls are described in ["Progress](#page-114-0) Views" (page 115) and "Activity [Indicators"](#page-106-1) (page 107)).
- Ask for confirmation of user-initiated actions. To get confirmation for an action the user initiated, even a potentially risky action such as deleting a contact, you should use an action sheet (described next in "Using Action [Sheets"](#page-80-0) (page 81)).
- Inform users of errors or problems about which they can do nothing.  
Although it might be necessary to use an alert to tell users about a critical problem they can't fix, it's better to integrate such information into the user interface, if possible. For example, instead of telling users every time a server connection fails, display the time of the last successful connection.