<!-- Chunk 65 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 408 -->
An application is accessible when users with disabilities can use it successfully, perhaps with the help of an assistive application or device. iPhone OS–based devices include many features that make it easier for all users, including disabled users, to use the device, such as visual voicemail, zoom, and voice control. You do not have to take any steps in your application to ensure that your users can benefit from these features.  
With VoiceOver, the story is a little different. VoiceOver is Apple's innovative screen-reading technology, which gives users control over their devices without requiring them to see the screen. To make sure VoiceOver users can use your application to its fullest, you might need to provide some custom information about the views and controls in the user interface.  
Fortunately, UIKit controls and views are accessible by default, so when you use standard elements in a completely standard way, you have little (if any) additional work to do. The more custom your user interface is, the more custom information you need to provide,so that VoiceOver can properly describe your application to users with visual impairments.  
**Important:** The job of making your application accessible consists of giving VoiceOver the information it needs to help people use your application. The job does *not* include changing the visual design of the user interface to accommodate VoiceOver.  
Making your iPhone application accessible to VoiceOver users is the right thing to do. It can also increase your user base and it might help you address accessibility guidelines created by various governing bodies.