<!-- Chunk 77 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 829 -->
Handling Common Tasks  
**Scenario 2**. Imagine that you're developing a game that allows usersto guide an onscreen character through many different tasks. You provide various gameplay sound effects and a musical soundtrack.  
In this application, sound greatly enhances the user experience, but is not essential to the main task. Also, users are likely to appreciate being able to play the game silently or while listening to songs in their music library instead of to the game soundtrack.  
The best strategy is to find out if users are listening to other audio when your application starts. Don't ask users to choose whether they want to listen to other audio or listen to your soundtrack. Instead, use the Audio Session Services function AudioSessionGetProperty to query the state of the kAudioSessionProperty\_OtherAudioIsPlaying property. Based on the answer to this query, you can choose either the Ambient or Solo Ambient categories(both categories allow usersto play the game silently):  
- If users are listening to other audio, you should assume that they'd like to continue listening and would not appreciate being forced to listen to the game soundtrack instead. In thissituation, you would choose the Ambient category.
- If users are not listening to any other audio when your application starts, choose the Solo Ambient category.  
**Scenario 3**. Imagine that you're developing an application that provides precise, real-time navigation instructions to the user's chosen destination. You provide spoken directions for every step of the journey and a few feedback sounds. In addition, you think people would appreciate being able to listen to their own audio while they use your application.  
In this application, the spoken navigation instructions represent the primary task. For this reason, you would use the Playback category, which allows your audio to play when the device is locked or the Ring/Silent switch is set to silent.  
To allow people to listen to other audio while they use your application, you can add the kAudioSessionProperty\_OverrideCategoryMixWithOthers property. However, you also want to make sure that users can hear the spoken instructions above the audio they're currently playing. To do this, you can apply the kAudioSessionProperty\_OtherMixableAudioShouldDuck property to the audio session. This ensures that your audio is louder than all currently playing audio (except phone audio).  
**Scenario 4**. Imagine that you're developing a blogging application that allows users to upload their text and graphics to a central website. You might have a short startup sound file, various short sound effects that accompany user actions (such as a sound that plays when a post has been uploaded), and an alert sound that plays when a posting fails.  
In this application, sound enhances the user experience, but it is incidental. The main task has nothing to do with audio and users do not need to hear any sounds to successfully use the application. In this scenario, you would use System Sound Services to produce sound. This is because the audio context of all sound in the application conforms to the intended purpose of this technology, which is to produce user interface sound effects and alert sounds that obey device locking and the Ring/Silent switch as users expect.