<!-- Chunk 71 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 486 -->
Users use the device's volume buttons to adjust the volume of all sounds their devices can play, including songs, application sounds, and device sounds. This means that users can always use the volume buttons to quiet any sound, regardless of the position of the Ring/Silent switch.  
In some cases, it might be appropriate for an application to give users volume-setting capability in the application's user interface. For example, YouTube displays a volume slider users can use to adjust the volume of the video they're watching. While YouTube is running, users can use the slider and the volume buttons interchangeably to affect the video's volume. Thisis because the slider acts as a proxy for the volume buttons while the application is running: The slider affects both the application's volume and overall system volume, with the exception of the ringer volume.  
If you need to display a volume slider, be sure to use the system-provided volume slider available when you use the MPVolumeView class. Note that when the currently active audio output device does not support volume control (such as an A2DP device), the volume slider is replaced by the appropriate device name.  
Using the volume buttons to adjust an application's currently playing audio also adjusts the overall system volume, with the exception of the ringer volume. (Using the volume buttons when no audio is currently playing adjusts the ringer volume.)  
This behavior follows the principle of user control because the user always decides how loud sounds from their device should be.  
Sometimes, an application might need to adjust relative, independent volume levels to produce the best mix in its audio output. But the volume of the final audio output should always be governed by the system volume, whether it's adjusted by the volume buttons or a volume slider. This means that control over the application's audio output remains in users' hands, where it belongs.