<!-- Chunk 67 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 745 -->
Users appreciate application featuresthat allow them to automatically tag content with their physical location, or to find friends that are currently nearby. Users also appreciate being able to disable features like these when they don't want to share their location with others. Users can grant (or deny) system-wide access to their physical location with the Location Services setting in Settings > General.  
If users turn off Location Services, and later use an application feature that requires their location, they see an alert that tells them they must change their preference before they can use the feature. The alert does not allow them to make this change within the application; instead, they must go to Settings and change their preference. This ensures that users are fully aware that they are granting system-wide permission to use their location information.  
To help users understand why they might need to turn Location Services on, it's best if they see the alert only when they attempt to use a feature that clearly needs to know their current location. For example, people can use Maps when Location Services is off, but they see the alert when they access the feature that finds and tracks their current location.  
If Location Services is turned off, iPhone OS displays the alert the first time your application tries to access location information. The Core Location framework provides a way for you to get the user's preference so that you can avoid triggering this alert unnecessarily or inappropriately. (See *Core Location Framework Reference* to learn more about this programming interface.)  
With knowledge of the user's preference, you can trigger the alert as closely as possible to the feature that requires location information, or perhaps avoid it altogether.  
- If your application cannot perform its primary function without this information, it's best if users see the alert as soon as they start your application. Users will not be bothered by this, because they understand that the main function of your application depends on knowing their location.
- If the user's location is not part of the essential function of your application, you might choose to simply restrict the feature that uses it. For example, when Location Services is turned off, Camera automatically turns off the feature that adds the user's location to the photos they take. It does not prevent users from taking photos unless they change their preference, because adding location information to photos is appreciated, but not essential.
- <span id="page-51-1"></span>■ If a feature needs location information to function, be sure to avoid making any programmatic calls that trigger the alert before the user actually selectsthe feature. (The call that getsthe user's preference does not trigger the alert.) This way, you avoid causing users to wonder why your application wants their location information when they're doing something that doesn't appear to need it.