<!-- Chunk 66 | Source: 2010-03 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 704 -->
UIKit provides the search bar control you can use to display a consistent interface to initiate searching, but you are responsible for implementing search in your application. (To learn more about the search bar, see ["Search](#page-115-1) Bars" (page 116); to learn more about handling search results in code, see *UISearchDisplayController Class Reference*.) To ensure that search is a useful and convenient experience users appreciate, take some time to consider how to implement the process and how to display the results.  
In general, you should:  
- Build indexes of your data so you are always prepared for search.
- Live-filter local data so you can display results as soon as users begin to type, and narrow the results as users continue typing.
- When possible, also filter remote data as users type, but be sure to get the user's permission if the response time is likely to delay the results by more than a second or two.
- Display a search bar above a list or the index in a list.
- Avoid using a tab for search unless it is a primary function in your application that should be featured as a distinct mode.  
Although live-filtering data usually produces a superior user experience, it's not always practical. When this is the case, you can begin the search process after the user taps the Search button in the keyboard. If you do this, be sure to provide feedback on the search's progress so users know that the process has not stalled. One way to do this is to display textual results as soon as possible and display placeholder content for data that might take longer to retrieve.  
In YouTube, for example, users initiate a search for videos by tapping the Search button. If the network connection is slow, YouTube first displays the Loading... message along with a spinning activity indicator so users know that search is proceeding. Then, YouTube displays a results list in which each row is populated with textual results, such as video title and viewer rating, and a custom image of a box with a dotted outline. As users scan the list of video titles, the video thumbnails replace the dotted boxes as they are downloaded. Displaying partial search results while additional data is still downloading gives users useful information promptly.  
If you handle data that sorts naturally into different categories, you can provide a scope bar. A scope bar contains up to four scope buttons, each representing a category. For example, Mail provides a scope bar that allows users to focus their search on the From, To, or Subject fields of messages, or broaden the search to include all fields. Consider providing a scope bar if it helps usersfocustheirsearch or if itsignificantly reduces the number of results. (To learn how to implement a scope bar in your code, see *UISearchBar Class Reference*.)