<!-- Chunk 37 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1472 -->
<span id="page-39-2"></span>The user already has a mental model that describes the task your software is enabling. This model arises from a combination of real-world experiences, experience with other software, and with computers in general. For example, users have real-world experience writing and mailing letters and most users have used email applications to write and send email. Based on this, a user has a conceptual model of this task that includes certain expectations, such as the ability to create a new letter, select a recipient, and send the letter. An email application that ignores the user's mental model and does not meet at least some of the user's expectations would be difficult and even unpleasant to use. This is because such an application imposes an unfamiliar conceptual model on its users instead of building on the knowledge and experiences those users already have.  
Before you design your application's user interface, try to discover your users' mental model of the task your application helps them perform. Be aware of the model's inherent metaphors, which represent conceptual components of the task. In the letter-writing example, the metaphors include letters, mail boxes, and envelopes. In the mental model of a task related to photography, the metaphors include photographs, cameras, and albums. Strive to reflect the user's expectations of task components, organization, and workflow in your window layout, menu and toolbar organization, and use of utility windows.  
A good example of how reflecting the appropriate mental model results in a clean, intuitive user interface is the iTunes application. Apple designed iTunes to reflect the mental models people associate with playing music and managing their music collections. In an uncluttered window, iTunes displays individual songs, playlists, and playback and search controls in a song-centric arrangement. The largest pane displays a list of songs, clearly sortable by categories such as title, artist, and album. The smaller pane displays the playlists and collections, which control the list of songs currently displayed, just as the disk and folder icons in the Finder sidebar control the display of files, folders, and applications. The prominent playback controls look like similar controls on radios, CD players, and the iPod. The search field is identical to the search field in Finder, Mail, and countless other Aqua-compliant applications. Because the iTunes user interface reflects a well-defined mental model, instead of forcing users to adopt unfamiliar concepts, even novice users find iTunes intuitive and easy to use.  
<span id="page-39-1"></span>The mental model your users have should infuse the design of your application's user interface. It should inform the layout of your application's windows, the selection of controls in the toolbars, and the functionality of utility windows. In addition, you should support the user's mental model by striving to incorporate the following characteristics:  
- <span id="page-39-3"></span>■ **Familiarity**. The user's mental model is based primarily on experience. When possible, enhance user interface components to reflect the model's symbology and display labels that use the model's terminology. Then, where appropriate, use familiar Mac OS X user interface components to offer standard functionality, such as searching and navigating hierarchical sets of data.
- As described above, the iTunes application displays playback controls that use well-known symbols users associate with play, pause, and rewind. Then, to offer searching and help, for example, iTunes uses standard Aqua user interface components. A Mac OS X user automatically knows how to use such standard user interface elements, regardless of the application in which they appear.
- **Simplicity**. A mental model of a task is typically streamlined and focused on the fundamental components of the task. Although there may be myriad optional details associated with a given task, the basic components should not have to compete with the details for the user's attention.  
In the iTunes application, for example, the basic task components of playing songs, selecting playlists, and searching are prominently featured. However, these are supplemented by easily accessible menu items and controls that perform additional tasks, such as ejecting a disk, shuffling a playlist, and displaying song artwork.  
- <span id="page-40-1"></span>■ **Availability**. A corollary of simplicity is availability. An uncluttered user interface is essential, but the availability of certain key features and settings the user needs is equally so. Avoid hiding such components too deeply in submenus or making them accessible only from a contextual menu.
- The iCal application, for example, has commands for subscribing to a new calendar and for publishing a calendar in the Calendar menu. These tasks are easily accessible, but are not so frequently performed that they warrant dedicated controls on the application's main window.
- <span id="page-40-2"></span>■ **Discoverability**. Encourage your users to discover functionality by providing cues about how to use user interface elements. If an element is clickable, for example, it must appear that way, or a user may never try clicking it. Be sure to use Aqua controls properly and avoid making controls invisible to inexperienced users.  
Aqua buttons, for example, appear three-dimensional, enhancing their resemblance to buttons users see on physical devices. Well-designed toolbar icons make the commands they portray recognizable to users. This familiarity gives users the confidence to explore the functionality of a new application.  
<span id="page-40-0"></span>Don't discourage discovery by making actions difficult to reverse or recover from. For more information on this, see ["Forgiveness"](#page-43-1) (page 44).