<!-- Chunk 410 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 645 -->
The global market for your application is defined by the extent to which it supports locale-specific content and functionality. As you design or revise your application, be aware of differences in language and cultural values and symbols so you can more easily localize your product for specific markets. For more information on internationalization issues, see ["Worldwide](#page-46-1) [Compatibility"](#page-46-1) (page 47).  
■ Make your application accessible to users with disabilities.  
To reach the millions of users with disabilities (and to comply with government-mandated accessibility requirements in some markets), you should ensure that your application is accessible. Mac OS X supports accessibility with a range of powerful features, including full keyboard access, speech technologies, and VoiceOver, an integrated accessibility interface to the Macintosh. You should test your application with these features to make sure that the application does not interfere with them and potentially degrade a disabled user's experience. For an overview of accessibility issues, see ["Universal Accessibility "](#page-48-0) (page 49).  
■ Strive for high performance and reliability.  
Even a stunning user interface is not likely to be enough to persuade users to continue using an application that performs poorly or behaves in a counterintuitive and unreliable way. Remember that the perception of performance is informed by two things: The speed with which an application processes data and performs operations and the speed with which the application responds to the user. Take advantage of the tools and optimization technologies Mac OS X provides to enhance the performance of your application. Be sure your application responds quickly and keeps the user informed about the progress of lengthy tasks. For more information on some techniques for achieving high performance, see ["High Performance"](#page-30-1) (page 31).  
Users will be quick to reject your application if it loses or corrupts data or behaves erratically. Build in as many safeguards against data loss as you can and be sure to warn users about potential problems, allowing them to make alternate choices that avoid risky situations. Although unpredictable behavior may not lead to data loss, it can cause users to distrust an application. Make sure the user interface elements in your application behave in an expected and desired way so users can trust your application to do what it promises. For more information on ways to make your application reliable, see ["Reliability"](#page-34-0) (page 35).