<!-- Chunk 19 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines (Preliminary).pdf | Est. Tokens: 360 -->
<span id="page-28-2"></span>Keep users informed about what's happening with your product. Provide feedback as they do tasks. When a user initiates an action, provide some indicator—visual, auditory, or both—that your application has received the user's input and is operating on it.  
Users want to know that a command is being carried out or, if it can't be carried out, they want to know why not and what they can do instead. When used sparingly, animation is one of the best ways to show a user that a requested action is being carried out. When a user clicks an icon in the Dock, for example, the icon bounces to let the user know that the application or document is in the process of opening. In Mac OS X, the kernel environment detects when your application doesn't respond to events for 2 seconds and automatically displays a busy cursor.  
For operations that don't execute immediately, use a progress bar to provide useful information about how long the operation will take. See ["Progress Indicators"](#page-106-0)  [\(page 107\).](#page-106-0)  
Provide direct, simple feedback that people can understand. In error messages, for example, spell out exactly what situation caused the error ("There's not enough memory to open another document") and possible actions the user can take to rectify it ("Try closing documents or other applications"). For more information, see ["Writing Good Alert Messages" \(page 182\).](#page-181-0)