<!-- Chunk 40 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines (Preliminary).pdf | Est. Tokens: 864 -->
The commands in the **File menu** provide housekeeping tasks for documents. In general, each command should apply to a single file. Note that the Preferences and Quit commands are now in the application menu.  
If an application is not document-centered, you can rename the File menu to something more appropriate. For example, the System Preferences application's second menu is called Pane.  
Several items in the File menu—Save, Print, and Page Setup, for example—apply to specific documents and therefore open sheets. For more information, see ["Document-Modal Dialogs \(Sheets\)" \(page 72\)](#page-71-1).  
<span id="page-42-4"></span>Standard File menu commands include these:  
- **New:** Opens a new document named "untitled." If your application requires documents to be named upon creation, you can display the standard file dialog.
- <span id="page-42-5"></span>■ **Open:** Displays a dialog that enables the user to open an existing document.  
- <span id="page-43-1"></span>■ **Open Recent:** The Open command should be followed by Open Recent, so that people can open recently opened documents without using the Open dialog. The Open Recent submenu displays documents in the order in which they were opened, with the most recent item at the top.
- <span id="page-43-0"></span>■ **Close:** Closes the active window. When the user chooses this command and the active document has been changed since last saved, display the standard save changes sheet (see ["Saving, Closing, and Quitting Behavior" \(page 80\)\)](#page-79-0). When the user presses the Option key, this command changes to **Close All.** The keyboard equivalents Command-W and Option-Command-W should implement the Close and Close All commands, respectively.
- <span id="page-43-4"></span>■ **Save:** Saves the active document, leaves the document open, and provides feedback indicating that the document is being (or has been) saved. If the document has not previously been saved, display the Save As Location dialog. Use sheets for document-specific dialogs. See ["Document-Modal Dialogs](#page-71-1)  [\(Sheets\)" \(page 72\).](#page-71-1)
- <span id="page-43-5"></span>■ **Save As:** Saves a copy of the active document with a new user-defined name, and leaves the newly named document open and active.  
<span id="page-43-6"></span>**Note:** Don't use the **Save a Copy** or **Save To** commands. People might not understand the distinction between them and "Save As."  
- <span id="page-43-2"></span>■ **Page Setup:** Opens a dialog for specifying printing parameters such as paper size and printing orientation. These parameters are saved with the document.
- <span id="page-43-3"></span>■ **Print:** Opens a dialog for specifying such options as page range and number of copies and prints the active document. These parameters apply to only the current printing operation and are not saved with the document.  
**Note:** If you need to add to the standard Print dialog, you can add a pane to the bottom pop-up menu. Follow the layout guidelines in ["Positioning Controls in](#page-113-0)  [Dialogs" \(page 114\).](#page-113-0) Make sure the name that appears in the menu doesn't conflict with already existing menu items.  
Cocoa developers should use the NSPrintPanel class. Carbon developers should use the Carbon print dialog extensions; for more information, see http:// developer.apple.com/techpubs/macosx/Carbon/graphics/ CarbonPrintingManager/carbonprintingmgr.html.