<!-- Chunk 96 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines (Preliminary).pdf | Est. Tokens: 500 -->
<span id="page-113-2"></span>This section describes a basic set of control layout guidelines. In an effort to simplify the process of resizing and repositioning existing layouts, most values are based on a multiple of 2 pixels. These guidelines use many of the default control sizes defined in Interface Builder; any exceptions are noted. When creating or changing dialog layouts, use the default fonts described in ["Fonts" \(page 153\).](#page-152-0)  
When laying out dialogs, keep these guidelines in mind:  
- In general, you should try for a more center-biased approach to dialog layout, as opposed to the strongly left-biased approach of the traditional Mac OS 9 dialog. Most of the sample layouts in this document illustrate the center-biased approach.
- All spacing between dialog elements involves a multiple of 2 pixels—2, 4, 6, 8, and so on.
- For most document windows that contain a single view (scrolling text or tables, for example), do not specify any space between the window edge and scroll bars (when using the Control Manager) or the frame of the view (in Interface Builder).
- For dialogs that contain a mix of controls, set 16 pixels of vertical space between controls. Try to maintain a 20-pixel space between the left and right edge of the window and any controls. Keep 20 pixels of space between the bottom edge and any controls; this can include the shadow of any push buttons in that area. Top spacing is determined by which controls are placed closest to the top of the dialog. For example, [Figure 7-34 \(page 119\)](#page-118-1) uses a pop-up menu as the topmost control, so the spacing is set to 14 pixels. In contrast, [Figure 7-35 \(page 120\)](#page-119-1) uses a tab control as the topmost element, so the spacing is set to 12 pixels.
- Groups of controls should be separated by 20 pixels of vertical spacing and subgroups of controls within groups should be separated by 16 pixels.
- Vertical spacing between controls is determined by the tallest control in the row.