<!-- Chunk 78 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines (Preliminary).pdf | Est. Tokens: 401 -->
If you need to customize the standard Print dialog, you can add a pane to the bottom pop-up menu. Follow the layout guidelines in ["Positioning Controls in](#page-113-0)  [Dialogs" \(page 114\).](#page-113-0) Make sure the name that appears in the menu doesn't conflict with already existing menu items.  
Cocoa developers should use the NSPrintPanel class. Carbon developers should use the Carbon print dialog extensions; for more information, see http:// developer.apple.com/techpubs/macosx/Carbon/graphics/ CarbonPrintingManager/carbonprintingmgr.html.  
<span id="page-88-3"></span><span id="page-88-2"></span><span id="page-88-0"></span>**Controls** are graphic objects that cause instant actions or visible results when the user manipulates them with the mouse. Standard controls include buttons, scroll bars, checkboxes, sliders, pop-up menus, and more.  
For Carbon developers, the Control Manager determines the overall appearance of all controls. For Cocoa developers, the overall appearance of interface elements is provided by the Application Kit. You are responsible for positioning the controls within your windows, according to the guidelines given here.  
**Note:** In this document, control sizes are compatible with platinum appearance metrics, but layout guidelines for Mac OS X differ somewhat from Mac OS 9. Carbon developers in particular should review the material in ["Positioning](#page-113-1)  [Controls in Dialogs" \(page 114\),](#page-113-1) ["Menus" \(page 33\)](#page-32-0), and ["Fonts" \(page 153\).](#page-152-0) Apple reserves the right to make changes in future releases.