<!-- Chunk 22 | Source: 2008-11 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1298 -->
Before you begin designing your application, it's essential to define precisely what your application does. A good way to do this is to craft a **product definition statement**—a concise declaration of your application's main purpose and its intended audience. Creating a product definition statement isn't merely an exercise. On the contrary, it's one of the best ways to turn a list of features into a coherent product.  
To begin with, spend some time defining your user audience: Are they experienced or novice, serious or casual, looking for help with a specific task or looking for entertainment? Knowing these things about your users helps you customize the user experience and user interface to their particular needs and wants.  
Because you're designing an iPhone application, you already know a lot about your users. For example:  
- They're mobile.
- They want to be able to open your application quickly and see useful content immediately.
- They need to be able to accomplish things in your application with just a few taps.  
Now ask yourself what traits might set your users apart from all other iPhone OS users. Are they business people, teenagers, or retirees? Will they use your application at the end of every day, every time they check their email, or whenever they have a few extra moments? The more accurately you define your audience, the more accurate are your decisions about the look, feel, and functionality of your user interface.  
For example, if your application helps business people keep track of their expenses, your user interface should focus on providing the right categories and making it easy to enter costs, without asking for a lot of details that aren't central to the task. In addition, you might choose a subtle color palette that appears professional and is pleasant to look at several times a day.  
Or, if your application is a game for a target audience of teenagers, you might instead want a user interface that is exciting, language that imparts a feeling of exclusivity, and a color palette that evokes current fashions.  
Finally, examine the set of features you intend to deliver. With the image of your user audience in mind, try to distill the list of featuresinto a single statement, a product definition statement, that describesthe solution your product offers and who your users are. For example, the desktop iPhoto application allows users to, among other things, organize, edit, share, print, and view photos. But a good product definition statement doesn't just focus on features, it also describes the intended audience. Therefore a sound product definition statement for iPhoto could be "An easy-to-use photo management application for amateur photographers." Notice how important it is to include a definition of your user audience in the product definition statement: Imagine how different an application iPhoto would be if it was designed to be "an easy-to-use photo management application for professional photographers."  
A good product definition statement is a tool you should use throughout the development process to determine the suitability of features, tools, and terminology. It's especially important to eliminate those elements that don't support the product definition statement, because iPhone applications have no room to spare for functionality that isn't focused on the main task.  
Imagine, for example, that you're thinking of developing an iPhone application people can use when they shop for groceries. In the planning stage, you might consider including a wide range of activities users might like to perform, such as:  
Getting nutritional information about specific foods Finding coupons and special offers Creating and using shopping lists Locating stores Looking up recipes Comparing prices Keeping a running total of prices  
However, you believe that your users are most concerned with remembering everything they need to buy, that they would like to save money if possible, and that they're probably in a hurry to get home with their purchases. Using this audience definition, you craft a product definition statement for your application, such as "A shopping list creation and coupon-finding tool for people in a hurry." Filtering your list of potential features through this product definition statement, you decide to focus primarily on making shopping lists easy to create, store, and use. You also offer users the ability to find coupons for the items on their list. Even though the other features are useful (and might become primary features of other applications), they don't fit the product definition statement for this application.  
When you've settled on a solid product definition statement and you've started to use it as a filter for your proposed features, you might also want to use it to make sure your initial decision on application type is still the right one. If you began your development process with a specific application type in mind, you might find that the process of defining a product definition statement has changed the landscape. (See ["Three](#page-17-1) [Application](#page-17-1) Styles" (page 18) for more on different types of applications you can develop.)