<!-- Chunk 8 | Source: 2008-11 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1533 -->
An iPhone OS–based device is not a desktop or laptop computer, and an iPhone application is not the same as a desktop application. Although these seem merely common-sense statements, it is nonetheless paramount to keep them in mind as you embark on developing software for these devices.  
Designing software for iPhone OS–based devices requires a state of mind that may or may not be second nature to you. In particular, if the bulk of your experience lies in developing desktop applications, you should be aware of the significant differences between designing software for a mobile platform and for a computer.  
<span id="page-14-2"></span>This section summarizes the concrete differences that have the highest potential impact on your design decisions. For detailed information on how to handle these and other issues in your iPhone application development process, see *iPhone Application Programming Guide*.  
#### Compact Screen Size  
The small, high-resolution screens of iPhone OS–based devices make them powerful display devices that fit into users' pockets. But that very advantage to users may be challenging to you, the developer, because it means that you must design a user interface that may be very different from those you're accustomed to designing.  
Keep in mind the screen size of 480 x 320 pixels and use that as a motivation to focus the user interface on the essentials. You don't have the room to include design elements that aren't absolutely necessary, and crowding user interface elements makes your application unattractive and difficult to use.  
#### <span id="page-15-0"></span>Memory is Not Unlimited  
Memory is a critical resource in iPhone OS, so managing memory in your application is crucial. Because the iPhone OS virtual memory model does not include disk swap space, you must take care to avoid allocating more memory than is available on the device. When low-memory conditions occur, iPhone OS warns the running application and may terminate the application if the problem persists. Be sure your application is responsive to memory usage warnings and cleans up memory in a timely manner.  
As you design your application,strive to reduce the application's memory footprint by, for example, eliminating memory leaks, making resource files as small as possible, and loading resources lazily. See *iPhone Application Programming Guide* for extensive information about how to design iPhone applications that handle memory appropriately.  
#### <span id="page-15-1"></span>One Screen at a Time  
One of the biggest differences between the iPhone OS environment and the computer environment is the window paradigm. With the exceptions of some modal views, users see a single application screen at a time on an iPhone OS–based device. iPhone applications can contain as many different screens as necessary, but users access and see them sequentially, never simultaneously.  
<span id="page-15-2"></span>If the desktop version of your application requires users to see several windows simultaneously, you need to decide if there's a different way users can accomplish the same task in a single screen or a sequence of screens. If not, you should focus your iPhone application on a single subtask of your computer application, instead of trying to replicate a wider feature set.  
#### One Application at a Time  
Only one iPhone application can run at a time, and third-party applications never run in the background. This means that when users switch to another application, answer the phone, or check their email, the application they were using quits. It's important to make sure that users do not experience any negative effects because of this reality. In other words, users should not feel that leaving your iPhone application and returning to it later is any more difficult than switching among applications on a computer.  
The most effective thing you can do to ensure that users have a positive application-switching experience is to pare the launch time of your application to the minimum. See *iPhone Application Programming Guide* for guidance on how to make your application's launch time as short as possible.  
In general, users quit your application by switching to another application or service on the device; they take no specific action to close your application. Therefore, do not expect users to select Quit from a menu or click a close button. This means that your application is likely to quit without much warning, so you should be prepared to save user changes as they are made, as quickly as possible. Doing so allows a fast, smooth transition between applications and ensures that your application can reflect the user's most recent changes the next time it starts.  
Another important facet of the single application model isthe way you handle application-specific preferences. On iPhone OS–based devices, users set preferences in the Settings application. Your iPhone application can supply such preferences, but this meansthat they must quit your application when they want to accessthem in Settings. If you follow the standard guidelines and offer settings that users need to set once, and then rarely, if ever, again, the user experience of your application should be smooth.  
#### <span id="page-16-0"></span>Minimal User Help  
Mobile users don't have the time to read through a lot of help content before they can use your application. What's more, you don't want to give up valuable space to display or store it. A hallmark of the design of iPhone OS–based devices is ease of use, so it's crucial that you meet users' expectations and make the use of your application immediately obvious. There are a few things you can do to achieve this:  
- Use standard controls correctly. Users are familiar with the standard controls they see in the built-in applications, so they already know how to use them in your application.
- Be sure the path through the information you present is logical and easy for users to predict. In addition, be sure to provide markers, such as back buttons, that users can use to find out where they are and how to retrace their steps.