<!-- Chunk 32 | Source: 2008-11 iPhone Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 354 -->
iPhone OS includes a few elements that help users make selections. When you need to offer choices in your application, you should use these selection methods because users are already familiar with their behavior. In general, you should not try to replicate the appearance and behavior of selection controls you might see in a desktop computer application,such as an application menu or a set of radio buttons. iPhone OS provides the following elements you can use to offer choices to users:  
- Lists(that is, table views). Userstap a row in a list to select an item. Lists are suitable for displaying almost any number of choices. For details on the ways you can use table views in your application, see ["Table](#page-76-1) [Views"](#page-76-1) (page 77).
- Pickers, including date and time pickers. Users spin the wheels in a picker until each wheel displays the desired part of a multipart value, such as a calendar date that comprises year, month, and day. For more information about using pickers in your iPhone application, see "Date and Time [Pickers"](#page-89-0) (page 90) and ["Pickers"](#page-94-0) (page 95).
- <span id="page-52-1"></span>■ Switch controls. Users slide a switch control from one side to the other, revealing one of two values. A switch control is intended to offer a simple choice within a list. For more information about switch controls, see "Switch [Controls"](#page-84-0) (page 85).