<!-- Chunk 37 | Source: 2004-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 570 -->
Mac users are familiar with the elegant, easy-to-use, and pervasive drag and drop functionality in Mac OS X. Users often prefer to use drag and drop, so correctly incorporating this direct manipulation technology in your Mac OS X application will go a long way toward meeting user expectations.  
<span id="page-42-4"></span>Ideally, users should be able to drag any content from any window to any other window that accepts the content's type. If the source and destination are not visible at the same time, the user can create a **clipping** by dragging data to a Finder window; the clipping can then be dragged into another application window at another time.  
Drag and drop should be considered an ease-of-use technique. Except in cases where drag and drop is so intrinsic to an application that no suitable alternative methods exist—dragging icons in the Finder, for example—there should always be another method for accomplishing a drag-and-drop task.  
<span id="page-42-3"></span>The basic steps of the drag-and-drop interaction model parallel a copy-and-paste sequence in which you select an item, choose Copy from the Edit menu, specify a destination, and then choose Paste. However, drag and drop is a distinct technique in itself and does not use the Clipboard. Users can take advantage of both the Clipboard and drag and drop without side effects from each other.  
A drag-and-drop operation should provide immediate feedback at the significant points: when the data is selected, during the drag, when an appropriate destination is reached, and when the data is dropped. The data that is pasted should be target-specific. For example, if a user drags an Address Book entry to the "To" text field in Mail, only the email address is pasted, not all of the person's address information.  
<span id="page-43-4"></span><span id="page-43-3"></span>You should implement Undo for any drag-and-drop operation you enable in your application. If you implement a drag-and-drop operation that is not undoable, display a confirmation dialog before implementing the drop. A confirmation dialog appears, for example, when the user attempts to drop an icon into a write-only drop box on a shared volume, because the user does not have privileges to open the drop box and undo the action.