<!-- Chunk 150 | Source: 2004-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 626 -->
A **push button** is a rounded rectangle with a text label on it. Clicking a push button performs an instantaneous action, such as saving a document, completing operations defined by a dialog, or acknowledging an error message.  
Buttons **155**  
Controls  
Use push buttons for buttons that contain text only. A button that has an icon or other image should be a bevel button. Push button text should not have a shadow or any other effects on it. It should be in the system font appropriate for the button size as described in the specification section that follows.  
Button names should be verbs that describe the action performed—Save, Close, Print, Delete, and so on. If a button acts on a single setting, label the button as specifically as possible; "Choose Picture…," for example, is more helpful than "Choose…" Because most buttons initiate an immediate action, it shouldn't be necessary to use "now" (Scan Now, for example) in the label. Don't use push buttons to indicate a state such as On or Off (where it would be more appropriate to use checkboxes).  
Don't use push buttons as labels; use static text.  
<span id="page-155-1"></span>Don't associate menus with push buttons; use a bevel button instead.  
<span id="page-155-0"></span>All push buttons should be clear (that is without color) except the default button—the button selected by pressing the Return key—which should use the default color (in addition to pulsing). For example, in a dialog containing an OK button and a Cancel button where OK is the default, the Cancel button is clear and the OK button uses color and pulses. When the user presses a nondefault button, such as Cancel, the button acquires color and the default button loses its color. If you use standard controls, this behavior is automatic.  
For information about proper capitalization of button labels, see ["Capitalization of Interface](#page-53-1) [Elements"](#page-53-1) (page 54). For information about when it is appropriate to use an ellipsis in buttons, see ["Using the Ellipsis Character"](#page-52-1) (page 53). For examples of using push buttons in dialogs see ["Dialogs"](#page-132-2) (page 133).  
**Carbon:** Push buttons are available in Interface Builder; to create one programmatically, use CreatePushButtonControl.  
**Cocoa:** Push buttons are available in Interface Builder; to create one programmatically, create an NSButton of type NSMomentaryPushInButton or NSMomentaryLightButton. See *Buttons* in Cocoa User Experience Documentation.