<!-- Chunk 76 | Source: 2004-05 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 606 -->
<span id="page-67-1"></span>Many of the suggestions listed here also apply to other graphics you develop for your application—for example, to augment a label or list item.  
- For great-looking Aqua icons, have a professional graphic designer create them.
- Perspective and shadows are the most important components of making good Aqua icons. Use a single light source with the light coming from above the icon.
- Use universal imagery that people will easily recognize. Avoid focusing on a secondary aspect of an element. For example, for a mail icon, a rural mailbox would be less recognizable than a postage stamp.
- Strive for simplicity. Try to use a single object that captures the icon's action or represents the control. Start with a basic shape.
- Use color judiciously to help the icon tell its story; don't add color just to make the icon more colorful. Smooth gradients typically work better than sharp delineations of color.
- Avoid using Aqua interface elements in your icons; they could be confused with the actual interface.
- Don't use replicas of Apple hardware products in your icons. These symbols are copyrighted, and hardware designs change frequently.
- Don't reuse Mac OS X system icons in your interface; it can be confusing to users to see the same icon used to mean slightly different things in multiple locations.
- Design toolbar icons at their actual size (32 x 32). For other icons, concentrate on perfecting your icon's look at 128 x 128 and work down from there. It usually works best if you scale down elements independently and then combine them rather than scale the entire icon at once.  
<span id="page-68-3"></span><span id="page-68-2"></span><span id="page-68-0"></span>This chapter discusses the standard cursors available in Mac OS X and provides information on implementing your own cursors. The standard cursors are designed to provide feedback to users. To maintain a consistent user experience, it is important that you use them only for their intended purpose.  
<span id="page-68-4"></span>Each cursor has a **hot spot**—the portion of the cursor that must be positioned over a screen object before mouse clicks have an effect on the object. The hot spot should be intuitive, such as the tip of an arrow cursor or the center point of a crosshair. Screen objects have a **hot zone**—the area that the cursor's hot spot must be within in order for mouse clicks to have an effect.