<!-- Chunk 186 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 429 -->
Use a text field to get a small amount of information from the user. Before you decide to use a text field, consider whether there are other controls that might make inputting the information easier, such as a picker or a list.  
**Customize a text field if it helps users understand how they should use it**. For example, you can display custom images in the left or right sides of the text field, or add a system-provided button, such as the Bookmarks button. In general, you should use the left end of a text field to indicate its purpose and the right end to indicate the presence of additional features, such as bookmarks.  
**Display the Clear button in the right end of a text field when appropriate**. When this element is present, tapping it clears the contents of the text field, regardless of any other image you might display over it.  
**Display a hint in the text field if it helps users understand its purpose**, such as "Name" or "Address." A text field can display such placeholder text when there is no other text in the field.  
**Specify different keyboard types to accommodate different types of content you expect users to enter**. For example, you might want to make it easy for users to enter a URL, a PIN, or a phone number. Note, however, that you have no control over the keyboard's input method and layout, which are determined by the user's language settings. iOS provides several different keyboard types, each designed to facilitate a different type of input. To learn about the keyboard types that are available, see the documentation for UIKeyboardType. To learn more about managing the keyboard in your application, read "Managing the Keyboard" in *iOS Application Programming Guide*.