<!-- Chunk 43 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 497 -->
Before you invest significant engineering resources into the implementation of your design, it's a really good idea to create prototypes for user testing. Even if you can get only a few colleagues to test the prototypes, you'll benefit from their fresh perspectives on your app's functionality and user experience.  
In the very early stages of your design you can use paper prototypes or wireframes to lay out the main views and controls, and to map the flow among screens. Although you can get some useful feedback from testing wireframes, their sparseness can mislead testers. This is because it's difficult for people to imagine how the experience of an app will change when wireframes are filled in with real content.  
You'll get more valuable feedback if you can put together a fleshed-out prototype that runs on a device. When people can interact with your prototype on a device, they're more likely to uncover places where your app doesn't function as they expect, or where the user experience is too complex.  
The easiest way to create a credible prototype is to use one of the Xcode templates to build a basic app, and populate it with some appropriate placeholder content. Then, install the prototype on a device so that your testers can have as realistic an experience as possible. You don't need to supply a large amount of content or enable every control in the app. As long as testers can tap an area of the screen to advance to the next logical view or to perform the main task, they'll be able to provide constructive feedback. To get started learning about Xcode, see *A Tour of Xcode*.  
When you base your prototype on an Xcode template, you get lots of functionality for free and it's relatively easy to make design adjustments in response to feedback. With a short turnaround time, you should be able to test several iterations of your prototype before you solidify your design and commit resources to its implementation.  
#### **CHAPTER 3**  
App Design Strategies