<!-- Chunk 41 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 494 -->
If you're coming from the web, you need to make sure that you give people an iOS application experience, not a web experience. Remember, people can visit your website on their iOS-based devices using Safari on iOS.  
Here are some strategies that can help web developers create an iOS app:  
**Focus your app**. Websites often greet visitors with a large number of tasks and options from which they can choose, but this type of experience does not translate well to iOS apps. iOS users expect an app to do what it advertises, and they want to see useful content immediately.  
**Make sure your app lets people do something**. People might enjoy viewing marketing content in the websites they visit, but they expect to accomplish something in an app.  
**Design for touch**. Don't try to replicate web UI design paradigms in your iOS app. Instead, get familiar with the UI elements and patterns of iOS and use them to showcase your content. Web elements you'll need to re-examine include menus, interactions initiated by hovering, and links.  
**Let people scroll**. Most websites take care to display the most important information in the top half of the page where it is seen first ("above the fold"), because people sometimes leave a page when they don't find what they're looking for near the top. But on iOS-based devices, scrolling is an easy, expected part of the experience. If you reduce font size or squeeze controls to fit your content into the space of a single device screen, you're likely to end up with unreadable content and an unusable layout.  
**Relocate the homepage icon**. Websites often display an icon that links to the homepage at the top of every webpage. iOS apps don't include homepages, so this behavior is unnecessary. In addition, iOS apps allow people to tap the status bar to quickly scroll back to the top of a long list. If you center a tappable home icon at the top of the screen, it's very difficult for users to tap the status bar instead.