<!-- Chunk 73 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 798 -->
iOS applicationsshould start as quickly as possible so that people can begin using them without delay. When starting, iOS apps should:  
**Display a launch image** that closely resembles the first screen of the application. This practice decreases the perceived launch time of your application.  
**Avoid displaying an About window or a splash screen**. In general, try to avoid providing any type ofstartup experience that prevents people from using your application immediately.  
**On iPhone, specify the appropriate status bar style**. In general, you want the status bar to coordinate with the rest of your application's UI.  
**Launch in the appropriate default orientation**. On iPhone, the default orientation is portrait; on iPad, the default orientation is the current device orientation. If, however, you intend your app to be used only in landscape orientation, launch in landscape regardless of the current device orientation and allow users to rotate the device to landscape orientation if necessary.  
Note that a landscape-only application should support both landscape orientations—that is, with the Home button on the right or on the left. If the device is already physically in a landscape orientation, a landscape-only application should launch in that orientation, unless there's a very good reason not to. Otherwise, a landscape-only application should launch in the orientation with the Home button on the right by default.  
**Avoid asking people to supply setup information**. Instead, follow these guidelines:  
- **Focus your solution on the needs of 80 percent of your users**. When you do this, the majority of users do not need to supply settings because your application is already set up to behave the way they expect. If there is functionality that only a handful of people might want, or that most people might want only once, leave it out.
- **Get as much information as possible from other sources**. If you can use any of the information people supply in built-in application or device settings, query the system for these values; don't ask people to enter them again.
- **If you must ask for setup information, prompt people to enter it within your application**. Then, as soon as possible, store this information (possibly, in your application's settings). This way, people aren't forced to quit your app and open Settings before they get the chance to enjoy your app. If people need to make changes to this information later, they can go to your application's settings at any time.  
**Restore the state of the app to that in use when the user last stopped using the application**. People should not have to remember the steps they took to reach their previous location in your application.  
**Important:** Don't tell people to reboot or restart their devices after installing your application because restarting takes extra time and can make the app seem less easy to use. If your application has memory-usage or other issues that make it difficult to run unless the system has just booted, you need to address those issues. For some guidance on developing a well-tuned application, see "Using Memory Efficiently" in *iOS Application Programming Guide*.