<!-- Chunk 39 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 369 -->
iOS users are accustomed to the appearance and behavior of the built-in apps, so they tend to expect similar experiences in the apps they download. You don't want to mimic every detail of the built-in apps but it's helpful to understand the design patterns they follow. Start by understanding the characteristics that distinguish iOS-based devices and the apps that run on them (you can read about these in ["Platform](#page-12-0) [Characteristics"](#page-12-0) (page 13)). Then, keep the following things in mind:  
**Controls should look tappable**. iOS controls,such as buttons, pickers, and sliders, have contours and gradients that invite touches.  
**App structure should be clean and easy to navigate**. iOS provides the **navigation bar** for drilling down through hierarchical content, and the **tab bar** for displaying different peer groups of content or functionality.  
**User feedback should be subtle, but clear**. iOS apps often use precise, fluid animations to show the results of user actions. iOS apps can also use the activity indicator and the progress view to show status, and the alert to give users warnings or other critical information.  
You can learn about the usage guidelines that govern these elements in "iOS UI [Element](#page-96-0) Usage [Guidelines"](#page-96-0) (page 97). As you begin designing the overall user experience of your app, be sure you understand the guidelines described in "User Experience [Guidelines"](#page-46-0) (page 47).