<!-- Chunk 51 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 357 -->
In a game, people care about the experience; they don't expect to manage, consume, or create content. If you're developing a game, you elevate content by enhancing the experience with a satisfying story, beautiful graphics, and responsive gameplay.  
If you're not developing a game, you can help people focus on the content by designing your UI as a subtle frame for the information they're interested in. Here are some ways you can do this:  
**Minimize the number and prominence of controls to decrease their weight in the UI**. Photos does this by placing a few unobtrusive controls on translucent bars.  
**Consider subtly customizing controls so that they integrate with your app's graphical style**. In this way, controls are discoverable and comprehensible, without being conspicuous.  
**Considerfading controls after people have stopped interacting with them for a little while**, and redisplaying them when people tap the screen. Sometimes you may want to fade the rest of your application UI, too. This is especially appropriate in apps that enable an immersive experience, because it gives even more of the screen space to the content people want to see. For example, Photos fades the controls and bars after a few moments of noninteraction, which encourages people to immerse themselves in the content. When people want to perform a task with their photos, a single tap anywhere on the screen redisplays the controls.