<!-- Chunk 111 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 698 -->
Use a tab bar to give users access to different perspectives on the same set of data or different subtasks related to the overall function of your app. When you use a tab bar, follow these guidelines:  
**Don't use a tab bar to give users controls that act on elements in the current mode or screen**. If you need to provide controls for your users, use a toolbar instead (for usage guidelines, see ["Toolbar"](#page-99-0) (page 100)).  
**In general, use a tab bar to organize information at the application level**. A tab bar is well-suited for use in the main app view because it's a good way to flatten your information hierarchy and provide access to several peer information categories or modes at one time.  
**On iPad, you might use a tab bar in a split view pane or a popover** if the tabs switch or filter the content within that view. However, it often works better to use a segmented control at the bottom edge of a popover or split view pane, because the appearance of a segmented control coordinates better with the popover or split view appearance. (For more information on using a segmented control, see ["Segmented](#page-99-1) Control" (page 100).)  
**Consider badging a tab bar icon to communicate unobtrusively**. You can display a badge on a tab bar icon to indicate that there is new information associated with that view or mode.  
**Use system-provided tab bar icons according to their documented meaning**. For more information, see ["Standard](#page-137-0) Icons for Use in Tab Bars" (page 138). If you decide to create your own tab bar icons, see ["Icons](#page-148-0) for [Navigation](#page-148-0) Bars, Toolbars, and Tab Bars" (page 149) for advice on how to design them.  
**On iPad, avoid crowding the tab bar with too many tabs**. Putting too many tabs in a tab bar can make it physically difficult for people to tap the one they want. Also, with each additional tab you display, you increase the complexity of your app. In general, try to limit the number of tabs in the main view or in the right pane of a split view to about seven. In a popover or in the left pane of a split view, up to about five tabs fit well.  
**On iPad, avoid creating a More tab**. In an iPad app, a screen devoted solely to a list of additional tabs is a poor use of space.  
**On iPad, display the same tabs in each orientation to increase the visual stability of your app**. In portrait, the recommended seven tabs fit well across the width of the screen. In landscape orientation, you should center the same tabs along the width of the screen. This guidance also applies to the usage of a tab bar within a split view pane or a popover. For example, if you use a tab bar in a popover in portrait, it works well to display the same tabs in the left pane of a split view in landscape.