<!-- Chunk 77 | Source: 2011 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 483 -->
The best iPad applications give people innovative ways to interact with content while they perform a clearly defined, finite task.  
**Resist the temptation to add features that are not directly related to the main task**. Instead, explore ways to allow people to see more and interact more. In particular, you should not view the large iPad screen as an invitation to bring back all the functionality you might have pruned from your iPhone application.  
To make your iPad application stand out, concentrate on waysto amplify the user experience, without diluting the main task with extraneous features. For example:  
- A book-reader application that allows people to read books and keep track of reading lists can provide a very enjoyable reading experience on the large screen. Instead of making people transition to another screen to manage their reading lists, the application can put the list in a popover and allow people to copy favorite passages into it. The application can also let people add bookmarks and annotations to the text, and help them trade their lists with others or compare their progress against a central repository of lists.
- A fighter pilot game might enable a translucent heads-up display over the main view. Players can tap realistic cockpit controls to engage the enemy or locate themselves on a map overlay.
- A soccer playing game can display a larger, more realistic playing field and more detailed characters, and allow people to manage their teams and customize the characters. It can also allow people to see information about characters without leaving the field view. Finally, it can enable a multiplayer mode in which two people can pit their teams against each other.
- A screenwriting application might provide ways to switch between a plot view and a character view without leaving the main context. Writers can switch between these views to check details as they write in the main view.