<!-- Chunk 34 | Source: 2006-10 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 908 -->
<span id="page-34-2"></span>A reliable program is one that earns the user's trust. Such a program presents information to the user in an expected and desired way. A reliable program maintains the integrity of the user's data and does everything possible to prevent data loss or corruption. It also has a certain amount of maturity to it and can handle complex situations without crashing.  
Reliability is important in all areas of software design, but especially in areas where a program may be runningfor an extended period of time.For example, scientific programs often perform calculations on large data sets and can take a long time to complete. If such a program were to crash during a long calculation, the scientist could lose days or weeks worth of work.  
<span id="page-34-5"></span><span id="page-34-4"></span>Here are some guidelines to keep in mind as you design your software for reliability:  
- Make sure your user interface behaves in a predictable way. The same set of actions should generate the same results each time. See ["Consistency"](#page-43-0) (page 44) for additional information.
- Provide predictable output from your documents. For printing, make sure that the content the user sees on the screen is what gets printed. (Note that the Mac OS X printing dialogs provide a print preview option for you.)
- Reduce or eliminate data loss when importing or exporting documents. If your program imports or exports files associated with other applications, make sure you fully support the file format. If your application cannot import all data from a given file format, warn the user that data loss may occur and offer the option to work on a copy of the original file.
- Test your software under a wide variety of conditions and verify that it responds appropriately. Simulate the network going down or a mounted volume disappearing and ensure that your software adapts appropriately.
- <span id="page-34-3"></span>■ Make sure your packaging clearly indicates the system requirements for your software. Don't assume your software runs on lower-end hardware until you test it on that hardware. Similarly, indicate which versions of Mac OS X you support.
- <span id="page-34-6"></span>■ Anticipate errors and handle them gracefully. If a function returns a result code, check it to see if there was a problem and respond appropriately. You can also use exception handlers to catch errors; however, use them sparingly. Exception handlers increase the memory footprint of your application, which can degrade performance.
- <span id="page-34-1"></span>■ Validate user input to ensure that it is what you expect. Formatter objects help ensure that users enter numbers and dates correctly. (For information on formatting data in a Carbon application, see *Data Formatting Guide for Core Foundation*. For information on formatting data in a Cocoa application, see *Data Formatting Programming Guide for Cocoa*.) Your own code should validate user-entered data to prevent it from causing problems later. See "The [Functions](#page-90-1) of Specific [Keys"](#page-90-1) (page 91) for information on how a user uses specific keys to enter data.
- Use the Apple-provided performance and debugging tools to find memory leaks and other problem areas in your code. These tools can uncover hidden bugs that you did not know you had.
- Choose modern APIs over legacy APIs. Modern APIs provide better handling of system configuration changes than legacy APIs.
- Prefer system and standards-based APIs to your own custom APIs. See ["Using](#page-60-0) Mac OS X [Technologies"](#page-60-0) (page 61) for additional information.