<!-- Chunk 337 | Source: 2006-10 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 392 -->
<span id="page-270-3"></span>A **scrolling list** is a list that uses scroll bars to reveal its contents. A scrolling list can contain as many items as necessary. Users can scroll through the list without selecting anything, click an item to select it, use Shift-click to select more than one contiguous item, or use Command-click for a discontinuous selection. Users can press the arrow keys to navigate through the list and can quickly select an item by typing the first few characters.  
If an item is too long to fit in the list box, insert an ellipsis in the middle and preserve the beginning and end of the item. Users often add version numbers to the end of document names, so both the beginning and end should be visible.  
Don't use scrollinglists to provide choices in a limited range. Because the fullrange may not be visible all at once, it can be difficult for users to understand the scope of their choices. Use sliders, discussed in "Slider [Controls"](#page-258-0) (page 259), instead.  
When you define dimensions, make sure that the list displays onlythe full height of lines of text (don't cut text off horizontally), and make sure that the scrolling increment is one list element.  
Text Controls **271**  
**Carbon:** Create a scrolling list programmatically by using the function CreateListBoxControl. **Cocoa:** In Interface Builder, create a scrolling list by selecting an NSTableView object from the Data palette. Then, in the Interface Builder Inspector, set the number of columns to 1 and ensure that only the vertical scroller is displayed.