<!-- Chunk 8 | Source: iPhone Human Interface Guidelines for Web Applications.pdf | Est. Tokens: 396 -->
Almost by definition, users use iPhone while they are mobile. Whether they're in a car or a train, sitting in a cafe or on a park bench, taking a walk, shopping, or waiting for an appointment, users use iPhone in environments that are likely to be filled with distractions. This does not mean that your iPhone solution can't or shouldn't perform important tasks that require users to concentrate. But it does mean that you must be prepared for the probability that users will not be giving their undivided attention to your content, at least not for long.  
Above all, therefore, your iPhone content must be quick and extremely easy to use. You need to grab the user's attention immediately and help them access the most valuable parts of your content quickly.  
Users not only use iPhone differently, they also feel differently about it. For example, users have a much more personal relationship with iPhone than they have with their computer and thisinfluences which user experience characteristics are most important. One aspect of this bond is the fact that iPhone is a small device that can accompany users wherever they go. This view encourages the development of a broad range of products that provide quick, easy access to things users need and want no matter where they are, such as shopping lists, movie reviews, maps and directions, email, and games.  
The user interaction model also informs content design. Because there is no external physical device that comes between the user and iPhone, the user interface of iPhone content must be especially streamlined and inviting.