<!-- Chunk 78 | Source: 1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3.pdf | Est. Tokens: 725 -->
Miniaturizing a window removes it from the screen without destroying it or its contents. From the user's point of view, the window is transformed into a miniwindow. Double-clicking the mini window reverses the miniaturization.  
Most standard windows and some panels have a miniaturize button. Windows that have a miniaturize button can be miniaturized using either the button or the standard Miniaturize Window menu command. A group of windows representing a single document can be miniaturized into a single miniwindow, as described under "The Document Menu" in Chapter 6.  
Users can't work in a miniaturized window, but programs can continue to alter the window's display. For example, if you begin compiling a program in a Terminal window, and then miniaturize the window, you'll see any error messages written by the compiler when you return the window to the screen. '  
Miniaturizing differs from closing in a number of ways:  
- Miniaturizing preserves the window as it was last seen on-screen. A window that's closed can't necessarily be retrieved in the same state.
- Miniaturizing a window leaves behind a mini window so that it can be brought back to the screen. Closing a window doesn't provide the user with a way of getting it back.
- Miniaturizing a window that displays a file won't close the file or change the way it's displayed. Closing a window usually closes the file it displays.  
#### **Hiding and Retrieving Windows**  
The Hide menu command lets the user clear the screen of all the windows belonging to an application. This opens up the workspace so that it's easier to work in another application.  
When an application is hidden, only its application icon remains on-screen. When the user double-clicks the icon, the hidden windows reappear on-screen. Users can resume working in the application, picking up again at exactly the point where they left off.  
Double-clicking an application icon has one other effect: It activates the application (as discussed in the next section), and so may cause the menus and panels of another application to disappear, while those of the newly activated application reappear.  
Double-clicking the icon for a running application activates it and brings its windows to the front, even if the application wasn't hidden. (The user can also bring covered windows forward using commands in the Windows menu, as described in Chapter 6.) The application's menus also return to the screen.  
If the user holds down the' Command key while double-clicking an application icon, the application is activated as usual, but in addition all other applications are hidden.  
**Note:** A window that's completely obscured by other windows is "covered," but not "hidden" in the sense used here. A covered window can be made visible by moving the windows in front of it to the side. A hidden window can't be-it's completely removed from the workspace.