<!-- Chunk 91 | Source: 1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3.pdf | Est. Tokens: 471 -->
Most standard windows have a close button. However, sometimes the close button isn't necessary. For example, the Digital Webster application is useless if its only standard window isn't visible, so the window has no close button.  
Your application should break the close button ~ whenever the user would lose work by closing the window. From the user's point of view, a broken close button means that the application won't let the user lose work by accidentally closing the window. If the user tries to close a window that has a broken close button or tries to quit its application, the application should bring up a Close or Quit panel, respectively. (See Chapter 5 for more information on these standard panels.)  
**Note:** If an application uses multiple windows to display a single file, then all the windows' close buttons should break when unsaved work is in any window. However, the application shouldn't bring up a Close panel until the user closes the last window for the file.  
An example of breaking the close button is in the Mail application. Mail breaks a Send window's close button as soon as the user types in the message area of the window. If the user then tries to close the window (either directly or by quitting the application), Mail puts up an attention panel that makes the user either confirm that the window should be closed or cancel the close.  
If an application does no work that can be saved, but merely shows data that can change, then it can break the close button to show that the window isn't up-to-date. The application should also provide a way for the user to force the window to update. Workspace Manager uses the close button this way.  
Like the miniaturize button, the close button has a matching command in the Windows menu. The command has a keyboard alternative, Command-w (for "window"). (See "The Windows Menu" in Chapter 6 for details.)