<!-- Chunk 165 | Source: 1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3.pdf | Est. Tokens: 458 -->
The scroll buttons permit more precise scrolling than direct manipulation of the knob. When clicked, a vertical scroll button scrolls a single line of text. When pressed, it repeatedly scrolls one line after another. Horizontal scroll buttons work in a similar way, scrolling a small fixed amount in a horizontal direction.  
The two scroll buttons on the same scroller form a related pair. When the user drags from one to the other without releasing the mouse button, each button acts as if it had been pressed. It's not possible to slide from the scroll buttons on one scroller to those on the other scroller, however.  
When the Alternate key is held down, the scroll buttons scroll one viewful at a time. Generally, when scrolling down a document, the bottom line (or two) is redisplayed at the top of the opening each time the display changes. When scrolling toward the beginning of a document, the top line ( or two) is redisplayed at the bottom. This provides users with a bit of overlapping context and reassures them that nothing was skipped over when the display changed.  
Sometimes scroll buttons appear alone, without the rest of the scroller. Since the knob and bar aren't present to indicate when it's impossible to scroll further in one direction or the other, the arrow on a scroll button must be dimmed when the button won't work.  
#### **Programming Note: Scrolling**  
Using Interface Builder, it's easy to put scrollers around an area. The Application Kit handles all scrolling behavior, including Alternate-clicking to scroll a large amount and Alternate-dragging to scroll a tiny amount. All you might want to do is adjust the amount that a click scrolls (even for graphics, it should be a distance comparable to a single line of text) and optimize drawing performance so that scrolling is as fast as possible.