<!-- Chunk 117 | Source: 1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1001 -->
The Application Kit Help panel is part of the NeXTSTEP help system. Some of the information displayed by this panel is already provided by the help system. For example, every application has available to it ready-made help on using the NeXTSTEP user interface. Besides help on basic tasks, such as using menus and scrollers, the help system has skeletal help that's automatically displayed when the user Help-clicks in menus and panels that are implemented by the Application Kit. For example, when the user Help-clicks in the Print panel, some basic information on using the panel appears in the Help panel.  
To use the Help panel, you need to add information about the objects in your application and the tasks associated with them. You should also override the standard help for Application Kit panels and commands with new files containing links to more task-oriented help. Once you've added the information, you should modify the provided index and table of contents so that they refer to the information.  
#### **Programming Note: Implementing On-Line Help**  
The Help panel is one part of NeXTSTEP support for on-line help. Other support includes:  
- A question mark cursor that appears when the user presses the Help key (or on keyboards without a Help key, when both the Alternate and Control keys are pressed)
- An easy way to connect interface objects with help text, so that when the user Help-clicks an object, information about the object automatically appears in the Help panel
- Built-in help for basic tasks (such as using menus and operating scrollers)  
To add help to an application, you first add a help folder using Project Builder. This help folder includes template files for the Help panel's index and table of contents. You can create and modify these and other help files, along with the help links in them, with developer-mode Edit. Both Interface Builder and the Application Kit have support for associating help with the user interface objects in your application.  
For more information on implementing on-line help, see the NXHelpPanel discussion in the NeXTSTEP General Reference.  
If your application uses the Help panel, it should also support Help-clicking of its objects. (Otherwise, when the user Help-clicks an object, the Help panel will come up but will likely show inappropriate help.) Help-clicking an object results in the panel automatically displaying the most specific help available. For example, when the user Help-clicks a button, the help system first looks to see whether the button has help associated with it; if so, the Help panel displays it. If not, the help system looks for more general help, such as that associated with the window or even the application that the button is in.  
#### **Writing Note: Creating On-Line Help**  
You're encouraged to reuse the contents of the help in NeXT applications such as Edit, Mail, and Workspace Manager. After copying the contents from one ofthese applications' Help panels, you can paste the contents into a file in your application's- help folder. You should then modify the help text and update the help links it contains so that the help suits your application. For example, Edit has help on working with documents, text, graphics, and color, as well as on printing and faxing. With a few changes, much of this help is appropriate for other document-based applications.  
You're also encouraged to use the design of NeXT's help. Help in NeXT applications is task-oriented, with Help-clicking serving as a way of discovering the tasks an object is used for. At the end of every help file is a list of related tasks, with links to the help for each task. The objects that have associated help are generally menu commands, standard windows, panels, and a few important buttons such as those in Mail's Compose window. If supplying this level of help isn't practical, then you should at least ensure that Help-clicking any object results in help on a relevant subject, even if the help is very general.