<!-- Chunk 23 | Source: 1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3.pdf | Est. Tokens: 505 -->
In particular, applications should avoid setting up arbitrary modes, periods when only certain actions are permitted. Modes often make programming tasks easier, but they usurp the users' prerogative of deciding what will be done. They can thus feel annoying and unreasonable to users who aren't concerned with implementation details.  
On occasion, however, modes are a reasonable approach to solving a problem. Because they let the same action have different results in different contexts, they can be used to extend functionality. When permitted, a mode should be freely chosen, provide an easy way out, be visually apparent, and keep the user in control. In the NeXTSTEP user interface, modes are used in only three situations:  
- In the modal tool paradigm, discussed under "Action Paradigms" later in this chapter
- In attention panels, discussed in Chapter 5, "Panels"
- In "spring-loaded" modes that last only while the user holds a key or mouse button down  
#### **Acting for the User**  
Even though the user is in control, sometimes it's appropriate for an application to act on the user's behalf without waiting for the user's instructions. For example, if a user will always select an item after bringing up a panel, perhaps the panel should already have an item that's selected.  
The purpose of acting on behalf of the user is to simplify the task at hand-to make a user action possibly unnecessary. Therefore, the end result of the application's action must be the same as if the user had performed the action. For example, if the panel's display changes whenever the user selects an item, then the display must also change when the application selects an item. Actions made on the user's behalf should be simple and convenient. Otherwise, they can be annoying or confusing, weakening the user's sense of control over the system.  
If there's any doubt as to whether an application should act on the user's behalf, then it probably shouldn't. It's better for the application to do too little than too much.