<!-- Chunk 142 | Source: 1986-12 Human Interface Guidelines (Final Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 517 -->
There is no such thing as a "typical user." You should, however, be able to identify some people who are familiar with the task your application supports but are unfamiliar with the specific technology you are using. These "naive experts" make good subjects because they don't have to be taught what the application is for, they are probably already motivated to use it, and they know what they need to accomplish the task.  
You don't need to test a lot of people. The best procedure for "formative" testing (testing during the design process) is to collect data from a few subjects, analyze the results and apply them as appropriate. Then, identify new questions that arise and questions that still need answers, and begin all over again—it is an iterative process.  
#### Procedures  
Planning and carrying out a true experimental test takes time and expert training. But many of the questions you may have about your design do not require such a rigid approach. Furthermore, the computer and application already provide a controlled setting from which objective data can be gathered quite reliably. The major requirements are:  
- to make objective observations
- to record the data during the user-product interaction  
Objective observations include measures of time, frequencies, error rates, and so forth. The simple and direct recording of what the person does and says while working is also an objective observation, however, and is often very useful to designers. Test subjects can be encouraged to talk as they work, telling what they are doing, trying to do, expect to happen, etc. This record of a person's "thinking aloud" is called a protocol by researchers in the fields of cognition and problem-solving, and is a major source of their data.  
The process of testing described here involves the application designer and the test subjects in a regular cycle of feedback and revision. Although the test procedures themselves may be informal, user-testing of the concepts and features of the interface becomes a regular, integral part of the design process.