<!-- Chunk 40 | Source: 1986-12 Human Interface Guidelines (Final Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 381 -->
While several windows can be open on the desktop at the same time, the user can work in only one window at a time. This window is called the **active window**. All other open windows are **inactive**. Things can be happening to documents in inactive windows, but the user can work only with the active window. For example, if the user chooses Close from the File menu, only the active window is closed.  
To make a window active, the user clicks anywhere in it. Making a window active has two immediate consequences:  
- The window changes its appearance: its title bar is sriped and the scroll bars, close box, zoom box, and size box appear.
- The window "moves" to the frontmost plane, so that parts that had been covered by other windows become visible.  
Clicking in an inactive window activates it, but makes no other changes. To make a selection within the window, the user must click again. When the user clicks in a window that has been deactivated, the window should be reinstated just the way it was when it was deactivated, with the scroll box in the same position and the same selection highlighted.  
When a window becomes inactive, the visual changes that took place when it was activated are reversed. The title bar is no longer highlighted and the scroll bars, close box, zoom box, and size box disappear. Although the information within the window remains visible (except where obscured by other windows), any selection is deselected. Figure 13 shows the visual difference between active and inactive windows.