<!-- Chunk 150 | Source: 2009 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 364 -->
Make labels for interface elements easy to understand and avoid technical jargon as much as possible. Try to be as specific as possible in any element that requires the user to make a choice, such as radio buttons, checkboxes, and push buttons. It's important to be concise, but don't sacrifice clarity for space.  
When the context of a label is clear, it's usually best to avoid repeating the context in the label. For example, within the context of an extended Save dialog, it's clear that the dialog acts upon a file or document, so there's no need to add the words"File" or"Document"to the Format pop-up label. Similarly, users understand that the items in an application's Edit menu act upon the current editing context, so there is seldom a need to make this explicit in the menu item names.  
<span id="page-134-3"></span>The capitalization style you should use in the label for an interface element depends on the type of element. See ["Capitalization](#page-135-0) of Interface Element Labels and Text" (page 136) for information on the proper way to capitalize the words in labels for different types of interface elements.  
The names of menu items and buttons that produce a dialog should include an ellipsis (…). See ["Using](#page-130-1) the Ellipsis [Character"](#page-130-1) (page 131) for details on when to use an ellipsis. The dialog title should be the same as the menu command or button label (except for the ellipsis) used to invoke it.