<!-- Chunk 270 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 463 -->
<span id="page-236-6"></span>Users can access the help system in three ways:  
<span id="page-236-5"></span>■ **The Help menu.** The Help menu is the far-right item in the application region of the menu bar. The first item in the Help menu should be Application Name Help, which should open Help Viewer to the first page of your help content. It's best to have only one item in the Help menu, but if you want to add additional items that are distinct from your help content, such as tutorials or website links, they should appear below the Application Name Help item.  
Help Viewer **237**  
Avoid adding items to the Help menu that essentially lead to the same place your help book. Multiple entries that open Help Viewer can be confusing; differences between sections of your help book may not be as obvious to users as you think they are. Navigating between sections of a help book is typically best handled by providing links in the Help Viewer window.  
- <span id="page-237-2"></span>■ **Help buttons.** When necessary, you can use a Help button, typically placed in the lower-left corner of a dialog or window, to provide easy access to specific sections of your help. When a user clicks a Help button, send either a search term or an anchor lookup (which leads to a specific page or pages) to Help Viewer.
- It's not necessary for every dialog and window in your application to have a Help button. If there is no contextually relevant information in the help, don't display a Help button.
- <span id="page-237-5"></span><span id="page-237-3"></span><span id="page-237-1"></span>■ **Contextual Help menu item.** If contextually appropriate help content is available for an object being pointed to, the first item in the contextual menu is Help. As with help buttons, the menu item can send either a search term or an anchor lookup to Help Viewer.