<!-- Chunk 48 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 567 -->
<span id="page-43-2"></span>Clicking an application icon in the Dock should always result in a window—a document or another appropriate window—becoming active. In a document-based application that is not open when the user clicks the Dock icon, the application should open a new, untitled window.  
<span id="page-43-5"></span>While an application is open, the Dock icon has a symbol below it. When a user clicks an open application's icon in the Dock, the application becomes active and all open unminimized windows are brought to the front; minimized document windows remain in the Dock. If there are no unminimized windows when the user clicks the Dock icon, the last minimized window should be expanded and made active. If no documents are open, the application should open a new window. (If your application is not document based, display the application's main window.)  
<span id="page-43-3"></span><span id="page-43-1"></span>When the user quits the application, the icon no longer appears in the Dock (unless the user has chosen to always display it in the Dock). Users can add an application icon permanently to the Dock by choosing Keep In Dock from the Dock menu while the application is open or by dragging the item from the Finder to the Dock.  
<span id="page-44-3"></span><span id="page-44-0"></span>Menus present lists of items—commands, attributes, or states—from which the user can choose. Menus are based on the interface principle of see-and-point: People don't have to remember command names because they can view all the available options at any time. Each application, including the Finder, has its own set of menus.  
This chapter describes pull-down menus in the menu bar and contextual menus, which display when the user presses or clicks an object while pressing the Control key. For information about other kinds of menus, see ["Pop-Up Menus" \(page 124\)](#page-123-1), ["Combination Boxes" \(page 128\)](#page-127-0), ["Command Pop-Down Menus" \(page 127\)](#page-126-0), and ["Pop-Up Icon Buttons and Pop-Up Bevel Buttons" \(page 134\).](#page-133-0)  
<span id="page-44-2"></span>The Mac OS has only one menu bar at the top of the screen; this feature makes it much easier for users to access menu content. Don't put menu bars in windows.