<!-- Chunk 64 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 985 -->
- <span id="page-56-2"></span>■ **New:** Opens a new document named "untitled" (or "untitled 2," and so on, as appropriate). If your application requires documents to be named upon creation, you can display a Save dialog (see ["Saving, Closing, and Quitting](#page-104-0)  [Behavior" \(page 105\)\)](#page-104-0). For more information about naming new document windows, see ["Opening and Naming Windows" \(page 74\)](#page-73-0).
- <span id="page-56-3"></span>■ **Open:** Displays a dialog for choosing an existing document to open. For more information, see ["The Open Dialog" \(page 102\).](#page-101-0)
- <span id="page-56-4"></span>■ **Open Recent:** The Open command should be followed by Open Recent, so people can open recently opened documents without using the Open dialog. The Open Recent submenu displays documents in the order in which they were opened, with the most recent item at the top. Cocoa provides built-in support for populating the Open Recent submenu. (Carbon does not.)
- <span id="page-56-1"></span>■ **Close:** Closes the active window. When the user chooses this command and the active document has been changed since last saved, display the Save Changes alert (see ["Saving, Closing, and Quitting Behavior" \(page 105\)](#page-104-0)). When the user presses the Option key, Close changes to **Close All.** The keyboard equivalents Command-W and Option-Command-W should implement the Close and Close All commands, respectively. The Close command and Command-W should not close utility windows.  
In a file-based application that supports multiple views of the same file, you can include a Close File command below Close Window, to close a file and all its associated windows. If possible, include the filename in the menu (for example, Close File "Jerry's Kids"). Shift-Command-W can be used as the keyboard equivalent for Close File.  
- <span id="page-57-2"></span>■ **Save:** Saves the active document, leaves the document open, and provides feedback indicating that the document is being (or has been) saved. If the document has not previously been saved, display a Save dialog (see ["Saving,](#page-104-0)  [Closing, and Quitting Behavior" \(page 105\)](#page-104-0)). Use sheets for document-specific dialogs (see ["Document-Modal Dialogs \(Sheets\)" \(page 96\)\)](#page-95-0).
- <span id="page-57-3"></span>■ **Save As:** Displays the Save dialog, which allows the user to save a copy of the active document with a new user-defined name, a new location, or both. The newly saved document remains open and active. Shift-Command-S can be used as the keyboard equivalent for Save As.  
<span id="page-57-6"></span><span id="page-57-5"></span>**Note:** Avoid using **Save a Copy** or **Save To** commands. Many users might not understand the distinction between them and Save As.  
- **Save All:** Saves changes to all open documents.
- **Revert to Saved:** Discards all changes made to the active document since the last time it was saved or opened. When the user chooses Revert to Saved, display an alert that warns the user about the potential data loss the operation will cause.
- <span id="page-57-0"></span>■ **Page Setup:** Opens a dialog for specifying printing parameters such as paper size and printing orientation. These parameters are saved with the document.
- <span id="page-57-1"></span>■ **Print:** Opens a dialog for specifying such options as page range and number of copies and prints the active document. These parameters apply to only the current printing operation and are not saved with the document. For more information, see ["The Printing Dialogs" \(page 115\).](#page-114-0)  
<span id="page-57-4"></span>**Note:** If you need to extend the standard Print dialog with features specific to your application or printer, you can add a pane, which users can choose from the features pop-up menu. For more information, see ["The Printing Dialogs"](#page-114-0) [\(page 115\).](#page-114-0)