<!-- Chunk 146 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 585 -->
There are various kinds of controls that incorporate text:  
- A **text input field**, also called an editable text field, is a rectangular area in which the user enters text or modifies existing text. The text input field can be active or disabled. It supports keyboard focus and password entry.
- Your application's text input fields should perform appropriate edit checks. For example, if the only legitimate value for a field is a string of digits, the application issues an alert if the user types nondigits. In most cases, the appropriate time to check the data in the field is when the user clicks outside the field or presses the Return, Enter, or Tab key.
- Combination boxes are text input fields that also contain a menu or a list of choices. See ["Combination Boxes" \(page 128\).](#page-127-2)
- <span id="page-143-9"></span><span id="page-143-2"></span>■ Use a **static text field** for informational text in a dialog (text not intended to be modified by users). Static text fields have two states: active and dimmed.
- When it provides an obvious user benefit, static text should be selectable. Error message text, for example, should be selectable. Text that is likely to be copied so that it can be pasted accurately into another context (such as a serial number or a host name) is another example.
- <span id="page-143-7"></span>■ A **scrolling list** can contain as many items as necessary. Users can scroll through the list without selecting anything, or can click an item to select it, use Shift-click to select more than one continuous item, or use Command-click for a discontinuous selection. Users can press the arrow keys to navigate through the list and can quickly select an item by typing the first few characters.
- If an item is too long to fit in the list box, insert ellipses in the middle and preserve the beginning and end of the item. Users often add version numbers to the end of document names, so both the beginning and end should be visible.  
<span id="page-143-8"></span><span id="page-143-6"></span><span id="page-143-4"></span>Don't use scrolling lists to provide choices in a limited range. Because the full range may not be visible all at once, it can be difficult for users to understand the scope of their choices. Use sliders, discussed in ["Slider Controls" \(page 137\),](#page-136-4) instead.