<!-- Chunk 199 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 566 -->
<span id="page-183-7"></span><span id="page-183-5"></span>In **default keyboard access mode,** focus moves only between fields that receive keyboard input, such as text entry fields, list boxes that support type-ahead, and scrolling lists. Mac OS X 10.1 and later provides the option of **full keyboard access mode,** in which users can navigate through windows and dialogs. Cocoa and Carbon applications that use system controls get this functionality automatically in Mac OS X version 10.2. For a complete list of the key combinations reserved in full keyboard access mode, see Table 9-6 (page 178).  
<span id="page-183-4"></span>Users can turn on full keyboard access in the Full Keyboard Access pane of Keyboard preferences. Control-F1 is a reserved keyboard equivalent for turning full keyboard access on or off; don't use this combination for any other purpose. Control-F7 temporarily overrides the current mode in windows and dialogs.  
<span id="page-183-2"></span>In full keyboard access mode, the arrow keys move between values within a control. For example, if the user selects a slider with the Tab key, the arrow keys move the slider control along the slider track. For vertically oriented choices, such as menu items, the Up Arrow and Down Arrow keys move the selection. For horizontally oriented choices, such as a row of tabs, the Right Arrow and Left Arrow keys move the selection. In some cases, it makes sense to support both orientations. For example, a vertical slider could use both the Up Arrow and the Right Arrow to increase the value.  
<span id="page-183-9"></span>In some cases, such as radio buttons, moving the focus to an item selects it as well. In other cases, such as push buttons, the user chooses a selected item by pressing the Space bar. In full keyboard access mode, pressing the Space bar is equivalent to clicking the mouse button.  
<span id="page-183-6"></span>The Escape key is used to cancel a dialog and to cancel a selection in a pop-up menu or list. In a Dock pop-up menu, Escape dismisses the menu and moves focus to the frontmost window.  
<span id="page-183-3"></span>The user can also quickly place focus in the menu bar, the Dock, toolbars, and utility windows using the key combinations described in Table 9-6.