<!-- Chunk 82 | Source: 2014 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 2157 -->
**If necessary, you can adjust relative, independent volume levels to produce the best mix in your app's audio output.** But the volume of the final audio output should always be governed by the system volume, whether it's adjusted by the volume buttons or a volume slider. This means that control over an app's audio output remains in users' hands, where it belongs.  
**Ensure that your app can display the audio route picker, if appropriate.** (An **audio route** is an electronic pathway for audio signals, such as from a device to headphone or from a device to speakers.) Even though people don't physically plug in or unplug a wireless audio device, they still expect to be able to choose a different audio route. To handle this, iOS automatically displays a control that allows users to pick an output audio route (use the MPVolumeView class to allow the control to display in your app). Because choosing a different audio route is a user-initiated action, users expect currently playing audio to continue without pause.  
**If you need to display a volume slider,** be sure to use the system-provided volume slider available when you use the MPVolumeView class. Note that when the currently active audio output device does not support volume control, the volume slider is replaced by the appropriate device name.  
**If your app produces only UI sound effects that aren't essential to its functionality, use System Sound Services.** System Sound Servicesisthe iOS technology that produces alerts and UIsounds and invokes vibration; it is unsuitable for any other purpose. When you use System Sound Services to produce sound, you cannot influence how your audio interacts with audio on the device, or how it should respond to interruptions and changesin device configuration. For a sample project that demonstrates how to use thistechnology,see *Audio UI Sounds (SysSound)*.  
**If sound plays an important role in your app, use Audio Session Services** or the AVAudioSession class. These programming interfaces do not produce sound; instead, they help you express how your audio should interact with audio on the device and respond to interruptions and changes in device configuration.  
**iPhone:** No matter what technology you use to produce audio or how you define its behavior, the phone can alwaysinterrupt the currently running app. Thisis because no app should prevent people from receiving an incoming call.  
In Audio Session Services, the **audio session** functions as an intermediary for audio between your app and the system. One of the most important facets of the audio session isthe **category**, which definesthe audio behavior of your app.  
To realize the benefits of Audio Session Services and provide the audio experience users expect, you need to select the category that best describes the audio behavior of your app. This is the case whether your app plays only audio in the foreground or can also play audio in the background. Follow these guidelines as you make this selection:  
- **Select an audio session category based on its semantic meaning, not its precise set of behaviors.** By selecting a category whose purpose is clear, you ensure that your app behaves according to users' expectations. In addition, it gives your app the best chance of working properly if the exactset of behaviors is refined in the future.
- **In rare cases, add a property to the audio session to modify a category's standard behavior.** A category's standard behavior represents what most users expect,so you should consider carefully before you change that behavior. For example, you might add the ducking property to make sure your audio is louder than all other audio (except phone audio), if that's what users expect from your app. (To learn more about audio session properties, see "Fine-Tuning the Category" in *Audio Session Programming Guide* .)
- **Consider basing your category selection on the current audio environment of the device.** This might make sense if, for example, users can use your app while listening to other audio instead of to your soundtrack. If you do this, be sure to avoid forcing users to stop listening to their music or make an explicit soundtrack choice when your app starts.  
● **In general, avoid changing categories while your app is running.** The primary reason for changing the category is if your app needs to support recording and playback at different times. In this case, it can be better to switch between the Record category and the Playback category as needed, than to select the Play and Record category. This is because selecting the Record category ensures that no alerts—such as an incoming text message alert—will sound while the recording is in progress.  
Table 30-1 lists the audio session categories you can use. Different categories allow sounds to be silenced by the Ring/Silent or Silent switch (or device locking), to mix with other audio, or to play while the app is in the background. (For the actual category and property names as they appear in the programming interfaces, see *Audio Session Programming Guide* .)  
<span id="page-128-0"></span>**Table 30-1** Audio session categories and their associated behaviors  
| Category              | Meaning                                                                                                    | Silenced | Mixes                                                                                       | In<br>Background |
|-----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| Solo<br>Ambient       | Sounds<br>enhance<br>app<br>functionality,<br>and<br>should<br>silence<br>other<br>audio.                  | Yes      | No                                                                                          | No               |
| Ambient               | Sounds<br>enhance<br>app<br>functionality<br>but<br>should<br>not<br>silence<br>other<br>audio.            | Yes      | Yes                                                                                         | No               |
| Playback              | Sounds<br>are<br>essential<br>to<br>app<br>functionality<br>and<br>might<br>mix<br>with<br>other<br>audio. | No       | No<br>(default)<br>Yes<br>(when<br>the<br>Mix<br>With<br>Others<br>property<br>is<br>added) | Yes              |
| Record                | Audio<br>is<br>user-recorded.                                                                              | No       | No                                                                                          | Yes              |
| Play<br>and<br>Record | Sounds<br>represent<br>audio<br>input<br>and<br>output,<br>sequentially<br>or<br>simultaneously.           | No       | No<br>(default)<br>Yes<br>(when<br>the<br>Mix<br>With<br>Others<br>property<br>is<br>added) | Yes              |
| Audio<br>Processing   | App<br>performs<br>hardware-assisted<br>audio<br>encoding<br>(it<br>does<br>not<br>play<br>or<br>record).  | N/A      | No                                                                                          | Yes<br>*         |  
\* If you select the Audio Processing category and you want to perform audio processing in the background, you need to prevent your app from suspending before you're finished with the audio processing. To learn how to do this, see "Implementing Long-Running Background Tasks" in *iOS App Programming Guide* .  
Here are some scenarios that illustrate how to choose the audio session category that provides an audio experience users appreciate.  
#### **Scenario 1: An educational app that helps people learn a new language.** You provide:  
- Feedback sounds that play when users tap specific controls
- Recordings of words and phrases that play when users want to hear examples of correct pronunciation  
In this app, sound is essential to the primary functionality. People use this app to hear words and phrases in the language they're learning, so the sound should play even when the device locks or is switched to silent. Because users need to hear the sounds clearly, they expect other audio they might be playing to be silenced.  
To produce the audio experience users expect for this app, you'd use the Playback category. Although this category can be refined to allow mixing with other audio, this app should use the default behavior to ensure that other audio does not compete with the educational content the user has explicitly chosen to hear.