<!-- Chunk 86 | Source: 2014 iOS Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 667 -->
Apps can receive remote control events when people use iOS media controls or accessory controls, such as headset controls. This allows your app to accept user input that doesn't come through your UI, whether your app is currently playing audio in the foreground or in the background.  
Apps can send video to AirPlay-enabled hardware—such as Apple TV—and transition to the background while playback continues. Such an app can accept user input via remote control events, so that users can control video playback while the app is in the background. In addition, this type of app can also reactivate an audio session after an interruption while it's in the background.  
A media playback app, in particular, needsto respond appropriately to media remote control events, especially if it plays audio or video while it's in the background.  
To meet the responsibilities associated with the privilege of playing media while your app isin the background, be sure to follow these guidelines:  
**Limit your app's eligibility to receive remote control events to times when it makes sense.** For example, if your app helps users read content, search for information, and listen to audio, it should accept remote control events only while the user isin the audio context. When the user leavesthe audio context, you should relinquish the ability to receive the events. If your app lets users play audio or video on an AirPlay-enabled device, it should accept remote control events for the duration of media playback. Following these guidelines allows usersto consume a different app's media—and control it with headset controls—when they're in the nonmedia contexts of your app.  
**As much as possible, use system-provided controls to offer AirPlay support.** When you use the MPMoviePlayerController class to enable AirPlay playback, you can take advantage of a standard control that allows users to choose an AirPlay-enabled device that is currently in range. Or you can use the MPVolumeView class to display AirPlay-enabled audio or video devices from which users can choose. Users are accustomed to the appearance and behavior of these standard controls, so they'll know how to use them in your app.  
**Don'trepurpose an event, even ifthe event has no meaning in your app.** Users expect the iOS media controls and accessory controls to function consistently in all apps. You do not have to handle the events that your app doesn't need, but the events that you do handle must result in the experience users expect. If you redefine the meaning of an event, you confuse users and risk leading them into an unknown state from which they can't escape without quitting your app.