<!-- Chunk 183 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 523 -->
An **ellipsis character** (…) can imply that there is more text than there is room to display or that a command (such as Open...) requires additional information before it can be performed. If, for example, the name of an item is too long to fit in a menu or list box, you should insert an ellipsis character in the middle of the name, preserving the beginning and the end of the name. This ensures that the parts of the name that are most likely to be unique are still visible.  
An ellipsis character after a menu item or button label indicates to the user that additional information is required to complete a command. You should use an ellipsis character in the following cases:  
- An action that requires further user input to complete or presents an alert allowing the user to cancel the action. Examples include Find, Go To, Open, Page Setup, and Print.
- An action that opens a settings window. The main function of settings windows is to allow the user to change some aspect of the application, not the document content. Examples include Set Title, Preferences, and Options.  
Don't use an ellipsis character in the following cases:  
- An action that requires no further user input to complete and does not present an alert. Often the item to be acted upon is already selected. Examples include New, Cut, Bold, and Quit.
- An action that opens an informational, accessory, or tool window. These windows can be implemented as either utility windows (as in the case of a color palette) or modeless windows. These windows provide tools that help create or manage the content in the main window and are frequently left open to assist in accomplishing the task of the main window. Examples include Get Info, Show Tools, and About This Application.  
Be sure to create the ellipsis character using the key combination Option-; (Option-semicolon). This ensures that an assistive application can provide the correct interpretation of the character to a disabled user. If you use 3 period characters to simulate an ellipsis, many assistive applications will be unable to make sense of them.