<!-- Chunk 27 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 497 -->
During the design process, if you discover problems with your product design, you might consider applying the 80 percent solution—that is, designing your software to meet the needs of at least 80 percent of your users. This type of design typically favors simpler, more elegant approaches to problems.  
If you try to design for the 20 percent of your target audience who are power users, your design may not be usable by the other 80 percent of users. Even though that smaller group of power users is likely to have good ideas for features, the majority of your user base may not think in the same way. Involving a broad range of users in your design process can help you find the 80 percent solution.  
#### **CHAPTER 1**  
The Design Process  
<span id="page-30-0"></span>Users are attracted to the Macintosh in general and to Mac OS X specifically because they feel the combination offers a superior user experience over other platforms. Macintosh computers are stylish, flexible, easy to set up, easy to maintain, and powerful. Mac OS X combines a reliable core with an intuitive design, stunning graphics, excellent security, and the features users want. Third-party applications enhance this package by delivering specific vertical solutions with sophisticated features and behaviors that are consistent with Apple guidelines.  
In the spirit of helping you deliver outstanding solutions in your software products, the following sections present some high-level goals to strive for in your software design.  
For information about the technologies you can use to implement these design attributes, see *Mac OS X Technology Overview*.  
**Note:** Although achieving all of the goals in the following sections is desirable, doing so may not be practical or necessary in all cases. In the end, the needs of your user audience should guide you towards the most relevant choices. For more information about how to define your audience, see ["Know Your Audience "](#page-24-2) (page 25).