<!-- Chunk 41 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 722 -->
Feedback and communication encompasses far more than merely displaying alerts when something goes wrong. Instead, it involves keeping users informed about what's happening by providing appropriate feedback. When a user initiates an action, always provide an indication that your application has received the user's input and is operating on it.  
Users want to know that a command is being carried out. If a command can't be carried out, they want to know why it can't and what can be done instead. When used sparingly, animation is one of the best ways to show a user that a requested action is being carried out. For example, when a user clicks an icon in the Dock, the icon bounces to let the user know that the application is in the process of opening.  
Often, you can use animation to make clear the relationships between objects and the consequences of actions. Mac OS X uses animation to subtly but clearly communicate with the user in many different ways, a few of which are listed here:  
- When a user minimizes a window, it doesn't just disappear. Instead, it smoothly slips into the Dock, clearly telling the user where to find it again.
- To communicate the relationship between a sheet and a window, the sheet unfurls from the window's title bar.
- To emphasize the relationship between a drawer and a window, the drawer slides out from beneath the window, displaying shadowing that makes it look like a desk drawer.  
<span id="page-42-2"></span>You should consider using such subtle animation to enhance feedback in your user interface.  
For potentially lengthy operations, use a progress indicator to provide useful information about how long the operation will take. Users don't need to know precisely how many seconds an operation will take, but an estimate is helpful. For example, Mac OS X uses statements such as "about a minute remains" to indicate an approximate time frame. It can also be helpful to communicate the total number of steps needed to complete a task—for example, you might include text that says "Copying 30 of 850 files."  
**Note:** A good reason to provide feedback during lengthy operations is that if your application fails to respond to events for 2 seconds, the system automatically displays a busy cursor for your application. Users who see this cursor without any other feedback might think that your application is frozen and quit it using the Force Quit window.  
<span id="page-42-0"></span>Provide direct, simple feedback that people can understand. For example, error messages should spell out exactly what situation caused the error ("There's not enough space on that disk to save the document") and possible actions the user can take to rectify it ("Try saving the document in another location"). For more information on how to compose useful alert messages, see ["Writing Good Alert](#page-204-1) [Messages"](#page-204-1) (page 205).