<!-- Chunk 409 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 549 -->
Meeting the minimum requirements and delivering features users expect takes you a long way towards producing an application that users in your target market will be eager to buy. Although the top layer of the pyramid represents more work, the result is a user-acclaimed application that takes full advantage of the powerful features of Mac OS X.  
Follow the guidelines in this section to produce an application that goes above and beyond users' expectations.  
#### ■ Support modelessness.  
As much as possible, avoid forcing the user to complete the current task before they can do anything else. Use sheets and drawers to allow the user more freedom (for more information about sheets and drawers, see ["Document-Modal Dialogs \(Sheets\)"](#page-201-1) (page 202) and ["Drawers"](#page-177-1) (page 178)). If you must use modes in your application, be sure to clearly communicate the current status and make it easy for users to get into and out of a mode.  
#### ■ Integrate Spotlight.  
Spotlight technology allows users to find files anywhere in the system, using criteria they define. Be sure to supply a Spotlight importer if your application uses a custom file format, so users can easily search for the files your application creates. In addition, you should consider using Spotlight technology to provide file system search capabilities in your application. For more information about Spotlight, see ["Spotlight"](#page-69-1) (page 70).  
■ Support fast user switching.  
Mac OS X allows multiple users to use a single computer at the same time. With fast user switching, one user's login session is active while the sessions of other users continue to run in the background. Users switch simply by logging in; logging out between users is not required. Applications should take this feature into account to avoid failing in a multiple, simultaneous user environment. If your application relies on exclusive access to resources or assumes there is only one instance of a per-user service running at any one time, be sure to modify the application to safely identify and share system resources. For more information on how to support fast user switching, see *Multiple User Environments*.