<!-- Chunk 288 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 405 -->
<span id="page-224-5"></span><span id="page-224-4"></span><span id="page-224-2"></span>**Controls** are graphic objects that cause instant actions or visible results when the user manipulates them with the mouse. Standard controls include push buttons, scroll bars, radio buttons, checkboxes, sliders, and pop-up menus.  
<span id="page-224-3"></span>In Carbon, the Control Manager determines the overall appearance of many controls. Controls introduced in Mac OS X version 10.2 and later are implemented using the HIView model. In Cocoa, the overall appearance of interface elements is provided by the Application Kit. You are responsible for positioning the controls within your windows, according to the guidelines given in this chapter and in ["Layout Examples"](#page-282-0) (page 283).  
This chapter discusses the behavior and appearance of the standard controls available in Mac OS X. Follow the metrics provided in this chapter to get the correct spacing between controls in your windows.  
Many controls have a small version and a mini version for use when space is very limited, such as in a palette or utility window. This chapter gives specifications for these as well as the full-size version. See ["Using Small and Mini Versions of Controls "](#page-292-0) (page 293) for more information.  
**Carbon:** See *Control Manager Reference*, *Handling Carbon Windows and Controls*, and *HIView Programming Guide*in Carbon User Experience Documentation for more information about creating and handling controls.  
**Cocoa:** See the various documents on controls available in Cocoa User Experience Documentation.