<!-- Chunk 133 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 520 -->
<span id="page-95-4"></span><span id="page-95-3"></span>Keyboard shortcuts are used throughout Mac OS X to provide quick ways for users to initiate certain actions. Many are provided by the operating system to meet both general usability needs and accessibility needs. The operating system therefore reserves certain keys and keyboard combinations for its use. These combinations, listed in Table 7-3 and Table 7-4, affect all applications and should not be used for any other function. Other keyboard shortcuts are used by the Universal Access features in Mac OS X and should be avoided.  
In addition to the keyboard shortcuts reserved by the system, there are a large number of keyboard shortcuts that have a well established meaning, such as Command-S for Save and Command-Q for Quit. Users accustomed to running applications in Mac OS X expect these keyboard shortcuts to be available and to mean the same thing in each application they use. An application that overrides these shortcuts, such as one that uses Command-Q for a Query command instead of Quit, runs the risk of unnecessarily confusing and frustrating its users.  
These common keyboard shortcuts are not reserved by the system, but they are highly recommended for applications that offer the associated commands. If your application does not offer all of these common commands, be sure you don't override these keyboard shortcuts and associate them with other commands your application does implement. A complete list of both system-reserved and commonly used keyboard shortcuts in Mac OS X is provided in ["Keyboard Shortcuts Quick](#page-304-0) [Reference"](#page-304-0) (page 305).  
<span id="page-95-2"></span>You may also define keyboard shortcuts in your application for frequently used commands. Some guidelines on how to create appropriate shortcuts are in ["Creating Your Own Keyboard](#page-96-1) [Shortcuts"](#page-96-1) (page 97). Other sections of this document list recommended keyboard shortcuts, where appropriate, to help you provide a consistent and familiar user experience in your application.