<!-- Chunk 406 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1095 -->
As you design or revise your application, there are a number of guidelines you must follow to ensure your application is "at home" in Mac OS X. You should view these guidelines and the features associated with them as nonnegotiable; if you don't follow them, users will notice that your application doesn't feel like it is intended for the Macintosh.  
To meet the minimum requirements of an application on the Mac OS X platform, be sure to:  
- Respect the single menu bar and avoid putting menu bars in your application's windows. Mac OS X provides a single menu bar across the top of the screen, which gives applications a consistent location to display commands. For more information on how your application interacts
- Respect the Dock.  
The Dock is an essential part of Mac OS X and users expect it to behave according to their preferences. At the very least, your application must not interfere with the Dock's position on the screen. Additionally, your application should cooperate with the Dock to provide information and utility to your users. For more information on the Dock, see ["The Dock"](#page-55-0) (page 56).  
■ Respect the multilayered window environment of Mac OS X.  
with the menu bar, see ["The Menu Bar and Its Menus"](#page-152-0) (page 153).  
- Mac OS X supports different types of windows for different uses. Be sure you know which types of windows your application should display and how they should look (for more information on these topics, see ["Types of Windows"](#page-170-1) (page 171) and ["Window Appearance"](#page-171-0) (page 172)). In addition, be sure you follow the guidelines for opening, naming, positioning, resizing, and closing windows described in ["Window Behavior"](#page-183-0) (page 184).
- Put the files your application creates in the proper locations.
- Mac OS X defines particular locations for application-specific files, such as preferences and user-created documents. Don't place files associated with your application in arbitrary locations because they will clutter the file system and users won't know where to look for them. For guidelines on how to interact with the file system, see *File System Overview*.
- Use standard Aqua controls.
- Aqua provides a wide range of controls with well-defined behaviors. Use these controls in your application's user interface and be sure you support the prescribed behaviors. For extensive information on the behavior, appearance, and usage of Aqua controls, see ["Controls"](#page-224-0) (page 225). In very rare cases, you may need to implement a custom control; if you think this might be necessary, see ["Extending the Interface"](#page-50-0) (page 51).
- Avoid the system-reserved keyboard shortcuts and respect the Apple-recommended keyboard shortcuts.
- Applications should not override the system-reserved keyboard shortcuts. These shortcuts are intended to supply specific behaviors regardless of which application is currently running. For more information on the system-reserved keyboard shortcuts, see ["Reserved Keyboard](#page-95-2) [Shortcuts"](#page-95-2) (page 96) and ["Keyboard Shortcuts Quick Reference"](#page-304-0) (page 305).  
An application should implement the recommended keyboard shortcuts associated with the tasks the application performs. If, for example, your application performs a save operation, it should implement the Command-S keyboard shortcut for this task. In almost all cases, an application should not override the recommended keyboard shortcuts. For example, Macintosh users should be able to rely on Command-S to mean Save no matter which application they are using. For a  
comprehensive list of the recommended keyboard shortcuts, see ["Keyboard Shortcuts Quick](#page-304-0) [Reference"](#page-304-0) (page 305). To see how the recommended keyboard shortcuts are used in menus, see the menu-specific sections in ["The Menu Bar and Its Menus"](#page-152-0) (page 153).  
■ Support the Clipboard.  
Mac OS X makes the Clipboard available to all applications and users can rely on the Clipboard's contents remaining unchanged when they switch applications. Be sure to support the Clipboard and implement cut, copy, and paste operations in your application. For more information on operations that access the Clipboard, see ["The Edit Menu"](#page-158-0) (page 159) and ["The Format](#page-161-0) [Menu"](#page-161-0) (page 162).