<!-- Chunk 262 | Source: 2005-12 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 455 -->
Sheets are displayed as an animation that appears to emerge from the window's title bar. When a sheet opens on a window near the edge of the screen and the sheet is wider than the window it's attached to, the sheet moves the window away from the edge; when the sheet is dismissed, the window returns to its previous position.  
Only one sheet may be open for a window at any one time. A sheet prevents any other operation on that window until the sheet is dismissed. If, when the user responds to a sheet, another sheet for that document must open, the first sheet closes before the second one opens.  
<span id="page-202-1"></span>A sheet on an active document window should cover (appear on top of) any active utility windows (if necessary). However, if the user leaves a sheet open and clicks another document in the same application, the inactive window and its sheet should go *behind* any open utility windows.  
In an application that allows multiple windows for the same document (so that the user can see different parts of a document simultaneously), a sheet is not appropriate. Use an application modal dialog in this situation to make it clear that changes to one window affect other windows in the application.  
<span id="page-202-0"></span>In an application that displays multiple documents in a single window at different times, such as in a tabbed browser, a sheet is appropriate even though it applies to only the current document in the view. This is because, in a single-window situation, the user can't move the view and its sheet aside to handle later when choosing to view a different document. Rather, the user in effect dismisses the view's contents when choosing to view a different document. The user should therefore dismiss the sheet on the current view before selecting a different document.