<!-- Chunk 17 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1050 -->
Tools are available to help you apply the design principles and interface specifications outlined in this document. Which tool to use depends on your application's type:  
■ **Carbon:** If your application is written and compiled using the Carbon API (Universal Interfaces 3.3.2 or later), use **Interface Builder** [to import existing](http://developer.apple.com/membership/index.html)  resources and convert them to nib files. Interface Builder provides a rich environment for creating application menus, windows, dialogs, palettes, and [other standard Aqua interface elements. Interface Builder is on the Mac OS X](http://developer.apple.com/membership/index.html)  Developer Tools CD, or you can download it from the Apple Developer [Connection website \(http://developer.apple.com/membership/index.html\)](http://developer.apple.com/membership/index.html).  
<span id="page-20-4"></span><span id="page-20-3"></span><span id="page-20-2"></span><span id="page-20-1"></span><span id="page-20-0"></span>If your application uses standard system resources (such as 'WIND', 'DLOG', 'DITL') and you don't wish to transition to nib files, use ResEdit or Resorcerer to modify your window layouts. If you have custom controls ('CDEF') or nonstandard interface elements that you want to display properly in Aqua, use the Appearance Manager.  
- **Cocoa:** If your application is written using Cocoa, use Interface Builder to design your menus, windows, dialogs, and standard controls. (See the previous paragraphs for more information about Interface Builder.)
- <span id="page-20-5"></span>■ **Java:** If your application is written using Java, take advantage of the JFC/Swing toolkit, which provides the Aqua look and feel by default. For more information, go to http://java.sun.com/products/jfc[/.](http://java.sun.com/SFC)  
If you are a Carbon developer and your application uses custom interface elements —elements drawn by your application rather than being defined as system controls—this section describes steps to make your application Aqua-compliant. If you are a Cocoa developer using the Application Kit to create your application interface, you don't need to concern yourself with this process. Cocoa developers who want to customize standard controls or create entirely new ones should subclass existing Application Kit objects.  
<span id="page-20-6"></span>If you design your Carbon application to be fully compliant with the Appearance Manager, your application will work with Aqua, even if Apple makes changes to Aqua after you've finished developing your application. Using the Appearance Manager doesn't involve any additional complexity; as *Programming With the Appearance Manager* states, "The key to making your program Appearance-compliant is to allow the system to do as much of your interface work for you as possible." All Appearance Manager calls are Carbon-compliant, as well.  
Here is a quick review of how to work with the Appearance Manager:  
- Register with the Appearance Manager.
- <span id="page-20-7"></span>■ Use the system-defined windows supplied by the Window Manager instead of creating your own.  
- <span id="page-21-4"></span><span id="page-21-3"></span>■ Use the wide assortment of system-defined controls available through the Control Manager instead of creating your own.
- When you absolutely cannot use standard interface elements, use Appearance Manager functions to make your custom elements Appearance-compliant.
- Remove table resources for windows, controls, menus, dialogs, and alerts from your application.
- <span id="page-21-2"></span>■ Make no assumptions about color values for your interface. Instead of hard-coding color values, use the Appearance Manager constants of type ThemeBrush and ThemeTextColor.
- Make no assumptions about the dimensions of menus, windows, or controls, since they could change in the future.  
<span id="page-21-1"></span>For more information and code samples, see *Programming With the Appearance Manager* [and the source code for the Appearance Sample, available as part of the](http://developer.apple.com/sdk)  [Appearance Manager SDK available at http://developer.apple.com/sdk.](http://developer.apple.com/sdk)