<!-- Chunk 19 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1448 -->
To help you identify areas of an existing application that need attention, this section highlights new elements introduced in Aqua, and how the Aqua interface differs from that of Mac OS 9. All of the behaviors and elements mentioned here are discussed in further detail in other chapters. When relevant, each chapter also begins with a "what's new" section that describes major differences between Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X.  
- <span id="page-22-2"></span>■ **Filename extension hiding:** Mac OS X 10.1 introduces per-file hiding of filename extensions. For more information, see ["Filename Extension Hiding"](#page-24-1) [\(page 25\).](#page-24-1)
- **Keyboard focus and navigation:** Mac OS X 10.1 provides more capability for navigating through interface elements using the keyboard instead of the mouse. For more information, see ["Keyboard Focus and Navigation" \(page 168\).](#page-167-0)
- **Universal Access:** A preferences pane implemented in Mac OS X 10.1 provides functionality to assist users with special needs.
- **The Dock:** Designed to help combat onscreen clutter and aid in organizing work, the Dock displays an icon for each open application and minimized document, as well as website links and commonly used items such as System Preferences and the Trash. Dock icons display documents in preview mode. The Dock replaces the Mac OS 9 Application menu. For more information, see ["The](#page-38-0)  [Dock" \(page 39\)](#page-38-0).
- <span id="page-22-1"></span>■ **Sheets:** A sheet is a dialog "attached" to a specific window, ensuring that the user never loses track of which window the dialog belongs to. The ability to keep a dialog attached to its pertinent window enables users to take full advantage of the Mac OS X window layering model. Sheets also promote modelessness; users can continue to work in other documents or applications because they don't have to address the dialog immediately. For more information, see ["Document-Modal Dialogs \(Sheets\)" \(page 93\)](#page-92-0).  
- **Window layering:** In Mac OS 9 and earlier, all windows belonging to a particular application are in the same layer. In Mac OS X, document windows and each application's main window are in their own layers, so documents from different applications can be interleaved. Clicking a window to bring it to the front doesn't disturb the layering of any other window.
- **Icons:** Graphic limitations of earlier operating systems constrained icons to a two-dimensional style. Mac OS X icons, on the other hand, are "photo-illustrative": they approach photo-realism while still providing the flexibility of stylized illustrations.
- A new concept in Mac OS X is classifying applications by role; for example, user applications, utilities, and administrator's tools. Each icon genre has its own icon style. When icons are next to one another—in the Dock, for example—the user can easily classify them because of their visually distinct genre. For more information, see ["Icon Genres and Families" \(page 192\).](#page-191-0)
- **Drawers:** A drawer is a subwindow that slides out from a parent window, and that the user can open or close (reveal or hide). A drawer contains controls that are accessed frequently but don't need to be visible at all times. For more information, see ["Drawers" \(page 85\)](#page-84-1).
- **Lists:** There are new, standardized looks for column browsers (such as seen in the column view of a Finder window or in an Open dialog) and scrolling lists (such as seen in the list view of a Finder window). These two types of lists are available to Carbon developers via the new data browser functions. The data browser replaces the original List Manager and provides substantially more flexibility and functionality. Cocoa developers can implement these list types using the NSOutlineView and NSBrowserView classes. For more information, see ["Text Fields and Scrolling Lists" \(page 137\)](#page-136-0).
- **Controls:** All controls have a new appearance in Aqua. New controls include round buttons for navigation and combination boxes (pop-up menus that also allow for user input). See ["Controls" \(page 115\).](#page-114-0)
- **Menus:** There's a new application menu, which contains items that apply to the application as a whole, and a new Window menu. Dynamic menus now work while open (commands can be toggled with the Option key). Sticky menus remain open without timing out. For more information, see ["Menus" \(page 43\)](#page-42-0).
- <span id="page-23-0"></span>■ **Help tags:** Help tags replace Balloon Help as the mechanism for answering "what's that?" interface questions. For more information, see ["Help Tags"](#page-221-1) [\(page 222\).](#page-221-1)  
- **Fonts:** The default system font is Lucida Grande, rather than Chicago or Charcoal. Application developers should note that many of the standard Mac OS 9 fonts have been removed from Mac OS X. For more information, see ["Fonts" \(page 189\)](#page-188-0).
- **Keyboard commands:** There are several new reserved keyboard equivalents, including Command-H for "Hide <appName>" and Command-M for Minimize. For more information, see ["Keyboard Equivalents" \(page 172\)](#page-171-0).
- **Toolbars:** For Cocoa developers, Mac OS X introduces a standard control for customizable toolbars with a new Aqua appearance and behavior. For more information, see ["Toolbar Icons" \(page 201\)](#page-200-0).
- **User domain directories.** Mac OS X defines a suite of user directories for new user accounts. These directories are provided to assist the user in organizing related types of files, provide a default location for task-specific applications (such as iMovie), and facilitate transferring files to and from iDisks. For more information, see ["File Location" \(page 235\)](#page-234-0).