<!-- Chunk 20 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 743 -->
With filename extension hiding, every file on the system that has a specific format can have an extension indicating that format, but users don't need to be aware of the extension. When a user copies a file to a computer that uses another operating system, the filename extension gives the system the information it needs to handle the file correctly.  
Applications can store type information of filename extensions and still present a readable user-visible name. Filename extensions are hidden by default, but users can choose to display a document's filename extension by deselecting the "Hide extension" checkbox in the expanded Save dialog, and can choose to show all filename extensions in Finder Preferences.  
Applications that already write out filename extensions for interoperability purposes now provide an enhanced user experience; these filename extensions can be hidden in Mac OS X but automatically get transferred with the file as it moves to a non-HFS file system. For example, when a user uploads a website containing  
Introduction to the Aqua Human Interface Guidelines  
HTML and movie files, because the movie files already have filename extensions, they don't need to be renamed, and links in associated Web pages function properly.  
To preserve the "what you see is what you typed" user experience, while supporting robust interoperability by using filename extensions to indicate file format, applications have several responsibilities. Apple recommends that applications adopt the following behavior:  
- All document files should have an extension indicating the file's format.
- When displaying filenames in the user interface, applications should use the file's **display name**. Mac OS X 10.1 includes a function to get the display name.
- When saving files, users should be able to control whether filename extensions are hidden. For more information, see ["Saving, Closing, and Quitting Behavior"](#page-100-0) [\(page 101\).](#page-100-0)
- Applications should save newly created document files with a filename extension, for easy exchange with other operating systems and other users over the Internet. This filename extension can be hidden, as described above.
- When opening and saving a document file, applications should preserve the value of the document filename extension hidden flag and should preserve the existing filename extension unless the user creates a new document file by choosing Save As.
- When saving a document file without an extension as a new file in a Save As operation, applications should add an extension, as they would when creating a new document file.  
<span id="page-26-3"></span><span id="page-26-0"></span>Products from Apple Computer are designed using a number of basic principles of human-computer interaction. This chapter presents these principles, and also points out what to consider for worldwide compatibility and universal access. Keep these considerations in mind as you design your product.