<!-- Chunk 64 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 575 -->
- <span id="page-54-2"></span>■ **About <Application Name>.** Opens your application's About window, which contains copyright information and version number. (For more information, see ["The About Window" \(page 88\)](#page-87-0).
- <span id="page-54-4"></span>■ **Preferences and other application-specific items.** Put all commands that provide access to the application's preference dialogs first, followed by application-specific items. Put a menu separator between the About command and the Preferences command. (If your application provides document-specific preferences, make them available in the File menu.)  
**Note:** Your application should present its own preferences dialogs. Applications may add panes to System Preferences only if the application's preferences apply to the system or to the user's environment as a whole. Such exceptions might include an input device that doesn't have its own interface or a server application that always runs in the background. For more information, see *Inside Mac OS X: Preference Panes,* available on the Apple developer website.  
- <span id="page-54-7"></span>■ **Services.** The Services submenu provides a way for one application to offer its capabilities to another application. For example, a user could select a name in a document and choose a Services command that looks up the name using an LDAP server, starts up an email application, and opens a new message window with the found email address in the To field.
- For more information, see *Inside Mac OS X: System Overview* and *Inside Mac OS X: Setting Up Your Application to Use the Services Menu,* available at [http://](http://developer.apple.com/techpubs/macosx/macosx.html) [developer.apple.com/techpubs/macosx/macosx.html.](http://developer.apple.com/techpubs/macosx/macosx.html)
- <span id="page-54-5"></span>■ **Hide <Application Name>.** This command should be preceded by a menu separator, and followed by Hide Others and Show All.
- <span id="page-54-6"></span><span id="page-54-3"></span>■ **Quit <Application Name>.** This last item in the application menu should be preceded by a separator. When a user chooses Quit and there are unsaved documents, present the necessary alerts (see ["Saving, Closing, and Quitting](#page-100-0)  [Behavior" \(page 101\)\)](#page-100-0).