<!-- Chunk 43 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 472 -->
<span id="page-37-4"></span>People who have a physical disability that requires additional access methods include individuals who are without the use of a hand or an arm because of congenital anomalies, spinal cord injuries, or progressive diseases. People in this group mainly have difficulty with computer input devices, such as the mouse or keyboard, and with handling removable storage media.  
<span id="page-37-5"></span>Some people have difficulty pressing more than one key at a time (required for many keyboard shortcuts, for example). Sticky Keys, which can be turned on in the Keyboard pane of Universal Access preferences, enables these users to press keys sequentially instead of simultaneously.  
<span id="page-37-3"></span>Users who have difficulty with fine motor movements may be unable to use a conventional mouse or may require modifications to keyboard behavior. Keyboard preferences enables users to modify how long they must press a key before it repeats. Mac OS X 10.1 provides ways for users to complete certain actions using the keyboard instead of the mouse. When full keyboard access is on, users can navigate to and select interface items. Mouse Keys, which can be turned on in the Mouse pane of Universal Access preferences, enables users to control the mouse with the numeric keypad, so they can complete tasks such as dragging and resizing windows.  
<span id="page-37-2"></span><span id="page-37-1"></span>Make sure that your application does not override any keyboard navigation setting. For more information, see ["Keyboard Focus and Navigation" \(page 168\).](#page-167-0)  
If you create hardware, make sure not to impose physical barriers that would impede someone with limited or no use of the hands or arms. For example, a disk drive with a latch would be difficult to open for a user who interacts with the computer with a pencil held in the mouth.