<!-- Chunk 121 | Source: 2001 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 556 -->
- Consider separating more advanced features from frequently used features. Most people, for example, won't need access to controls for specifying precise percentages of cyan, yellow, and magenta.
- Provide visual feedback (such as the preview in the Layout pane) when appropriate. A thumbnail showing the effect of changing a Tone control, for example, helps users determine desired settings.  
<span id="page-113-1"></span><span id="page-113-0"></span>If you are a Carbon application developer, you can write a PDE to customize panes in the Page Setup or Print dialogs. For more information, see *Inside Mac OS X: Extending Printing Dialogs,* available at http://developer.apple.com/techpubs/ macosx/Carbon/graphics/CarbonPrintingManager/carbonprintingmgr.html[. If](http://developer.apple.com/techpubs/macosx/Carbon/graphics/CarbonPrintingManager/carbonprintingmgr.html)  [you are a Cocoa application developer, you can implement an "accessory view" by](http://developer.apple.com/techpubs/macosx/Carbon/graphics/CarbonPrintingManager/carbonprintingmgr.html)  using NSPageLayout and NSPrintPanel, both Application Kit classes.  
<span id="page-114-5"></span><span id="page-114-0"></span>**Controls** are graphic objects that cause instant actions or visible results when the user manipulates them with the mouse. Standard controls include buttons, scroll bars, checkboxes, sliders, pop-up menus, and more.  
<span id="page-114-4"></span><span id="page-114-3"></span><span id="page-114-2"></span>For Carbon developers, the Control Manager determines the overall appearance of all controls. For Cocoa developers, the overall appearance of interface elements is provided by the Application Kit. You are responsible for positioning the controls within your windows, according to the guidelines given here.  
**Note:** In this document, control sizes are compatible with platinum appearance metrics, but layout guidelines for Mac OS X differ somewhat from Mac OS 9. Carbon developers in particular should review the material in ["Layout](#page-142-0)  [Guidelines" \(page 143\)](#page-142-0), ["Menus" \(page 43\)](#page-42-0), and ["Fonts" \(page 189\)](#page-188-0). Apple reserves the right to make changes in future releases.