<!-- Chunk 68 | Source: 2005-09 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 400 -->
<span id="page-56-7"></span><span id="page-56-6"></span>Here are some tips to help your application integrate well with the Finder:  
- <span id="page-56-2"></span>■ Make sure your application bundle has a .app extension. The Finder looks for this extension and treats your application appropriately when it finds it. The Finder also hides this extension for you automatically.
- <span id="page-56-8"></span>■ Package CFM applications in a bundle. Even if you develop using the CFM runtime, you can still take advantage of the bundle mechanism in Mac OS X.
- <span id="page-56-5"></span>■ Use an information property list to communicate information to the Finder. The information property list is the standard place to store information about your application and document types. For information on what to put in this file, see *Runtime Configuration Guidelines*.
- <span id="page-56-4"></span>■ When saving files of your own document types, include a file type, creator type, and filename extension for your file. It is best to include all three of these identifiers to ensure maximum compatibilitywith other platforms. See*FileSystem Overview* for more information about filename extensions, file types, and creator types.
- Avoid changing the creator type of existing documents. The creator type implies a distinct sense of ownership over a file. Your application should assign a creator type for files it creates but it is not appropriate to change creator types for documents created by other applications. The user can still associate files with a specific application through the Info window.