<!-- Chunk 253 | Source: 2005-09 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 364 -->
Sometimes you need to provide the user with additional information or functionality in a dialog, but you don't want to display it all the time. To do this, you use one of the disclosure controls to expand the dialog and reveal the additional information or capability to the user.  
If you want to allow the user to view details that elaborate on the primary information in a dialog, you use a disclosure triangle (note that disclosure triangles are also used in hierarchical lists). The disclosure triangle expands the dialog, revealing additional information and, if appropriate, extra functionality. An example of a dialog expanded by a disclosure triangle is shown in [Figure](#page-262-0) [14-52](#page-262-0) (page 263). For more information about how to use a disclosure triangle in your dialog, see ["Disclosure](#page-261-1) Triangles" (page 262).  
<span id="page-206-0"></span>If you want to provide the user with additional choices directly related to the selections offered in a pop-up or command pop-down menu in a dialog, you use a disclosure button. The disclosure button expands the dialogto reveal selections in addition to those listed in the pop-up or command pop-down menu. An example of a dialog expanded by a disclosure button to reveal additional choices is shown in [Figure](#page-211-0) 13-40 (page 212). For more information about how to use a disclosure button in your dialog, see ["Disclosure](#page-263-0) Buttons" (page 264).