<!-- Chunk 47 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 462 -->
Encourage people to explore your app by building in forgiveness—that is, making most actions easily reversible. People need to feel that they can try things without damaging the system or jeopardizing their data. Ideally, your app provides users with the capabilities they need while helping them avoid dangerous, irreversible actions.  
**Create safety nets so that users feel comfortable learning how to use your app.** For example, support Undo as much as possible (for some guidelines on how to do this, see "The Edit [Menu"](#page-152-0) (page 153)). Also, consider allowing users to make changes to their content, but defer committing to the changes until a later time. For example, iPhoto allows users to perform all sorts of modifications to a photo without actually changing the photo file until they want to.  
**Warn users when they initiate a task that will cause an unexpected and irreversible loss of data.** Such warnings are important, but they can become annoying—and users tend to ignore them—if they appear too often. Make sure you don't warn users when data loss is an expected outcome of an action. For example, the Finder doesn't display an alert when the user throws away a file because the user intends to delete the file. For more guidelines on how to use alerts in your app, see ["Alerts"](#page-235-0) (page 236).  
**Provide plenty ofinformative feedback and communication throughout your app.** Relevant, reliable feedback helps users feel confident that they have enough information to make the right choices.  
**In most cases, avoid constraining user actions.** Unless you're creating a children's app in which it can be appropriate to restrict the user's scope of action, you don't want users to feel that your app is paternalistic. As much as possible, let users do what they want without unnecessary interference.