<!-- Chunk 50 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 543 -->
An interoperable app communicates seamlessly with other apps and services so that users can open their content in different apps and exchange information with other users. Users appreciate interoperability because it means that they can focus on their content, without having to pay attention to details such as file formats and data-exchange protocols.  
**As much as possible, avoid using custom file formats.** Instead, use standard file formats so that users can easily exchange documents with other users or open them in different apps. If you must use a custom file format, be sure to provide import and export capabilities so that users can exchange data with other apps and the system. If necessary, you should also include a Quick Look generator to convert your native document format into a format the Finder and Spotlight can display. (For more information about integrating well with the Finder and with Spotlight, see "The [Finder"](#page-67-0) (page 68) and ["Spotlight"](#page-105-0) (page 106).)  
**Use the same file format on all platforms you support.** Using the same format on all platforms ensures that users can use your app to view their content regardless of the device or platform they're using.  
**Support filename extensions.** A filename extension identifies the document's type in a way that all platforms understand. Although OS X users can hide the display of filename extensions, you should support them so that apps on other platforms can recognize and open the files that your app creates.  
**Use the user defaults system to store preferences.** When you use the user defaults system to manage your app's configuration information, the data is generally stored in property list files. In your app, you use the shared NSUserDefaults object to access and modify this information (on the command line, you can use the defaults tool to examine the contents of the user defaults database).  
**Use standard protocols for data interchange.** XML is the preferred format for exchanging data among apps and platforms because it is cross-platform and widely supported. OS X also supports numerous network protocols, as listed in "Core OS Layer".