<!-- Chunk 44 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 389 -->
Users expect to be able to benefit from your app as soon as they install it. Meet this expectation by following these guidelines.  
**Don't ask users to restart.** After installation, your app should be ready for immediate use. If your app relies on a restart to work correctly, you should rethink its design.  
**Avoid requiring users to supply a lot of setup information before they can do anything else.** Instead, let users get started right away and defer asking for setup or configuration information until it's actually needed. Get as much information as possible from other sources, such as system preferences or Contacts, so that you can avoid asking users for information they've already supplied. When you must ask users for information, try to give users something in return for each piece of information they provide.  
**Establish intelligent default settings.** Determine how most users are likely to use your app and set the default configuration accordingly. When you gauge the needs of your user audience accurately, it's rarely necessary for users to adjust the default settings in your app's preferences.  
**Make sure the functionality in your app is easily discoverable.** When the usage of your app is obvious, users feel empowered and they can be successful right away. Although you should make help content available in case users need it, users should not feel that they must read a manual before they can begin using your app. (For guidelines on how to provide good help content, see "User [Assistance"](#page-106-0) (page 107).)