<!-- Chunk 119 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 464 -->
Apps can allow users to take a window full screen, so that they can immerse themselves in an experience or perform a task without distractions. When users take a window full screen, the app moves the window into a new space.  
**Use modern APIs to enable a full-screen window.** If your app enabled a full-screen window in earlier versions of OS X, you should update your code to take advantage of the full-screen behavior introduced in OS X v10.7. Users expect to see windows transition to a new space and they expect to be able to switch between them and see them displayed in Mission Control. When you use the modern APIs, you can take advantage of the system-provided support for these behaviors,so that you can give users a consistent experience. For an overview of these programming interfaces, see "Implementing the Full-Screen Experience".  
**Avoid creating a custom control that takes your window full screen.** When you use the full-screen APIs, the appropriate dual-state button (that is, and ) automatically appears in the right end of the title bar, giving users a consistent way to take your window full screen. You should also add the Enter Full Screen item to your View menu. (For more information about the View menu, see "The View [Menu"](#page-157-0) (page 158).) To learn how to enable full-screen windows in your code, see "Implementing the Full-Screen Experience".  
**Create custom animations for your window's transition to and from full-screen mode.** It's recommended that you design a smooth, subtle animated transition to replace the default transition. In particular, you need to make sure that all parts of your window move smoothly together and no parts appear to break apart or lag behind. For example, the torn-paper area below the Calendar toolbar moves with the toolbar when an Calendar window transitions to full screen.