<!-- Chunk 91 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1344 -->
For the best results, enlist a professional graphic designer to help you develop an overall visual style for your app, and apply that style to all the icons and images in it.  
The tips in this section help you design a great app icon, but many of them also apply to the design of other icons, such as toolbar icons.  
**Give your app icon a realistic, unique shape.** On OS X, app icons should have the shape of the objects they depict, including cutouts. A unique outline focuses attention on the depicted object and makes it easier for users to recognize the icon at a glance.  
If necessary, you can use a circular shape to encapsulate a set of images. In particular, you should avoid using the "rounded tile" shape that users associate with iOS app icons.  
**Don't reuse your iOS app icon, if you have one.** If you're developing an OS X version of an iOS app, you should not reuse your iOS app icon. Although you want users to recognize your app, you don't want to imply that your app isn't tailored for the OS X environment. Start by reexamining the way you use images and metaphors in your iOS app icon. Then, remove the rounded rectangular outline of the iOS app icon and focus on the main images within it. For example, if your iOS app icon shows a tree inside the rectangle, use the tree itself for your OS X app icon.  
**Use universal imagery that people will easily recognize.** Avoid focusing on a secondary aspect of an element. For example, for a mail icon, users are less likely to recognize a rural mailbox than a postage stamp.  
**Strive for simplicity.** In particular, avoid cramming lots of images into your icon. Try to use a single object that expresses the essence of your app. Start with a basic shape and add details strategically. If an icon's content or shape is overly complex, the details can become confusing and may appear blurry at smaller sizes.  
**Use color and shadow judiciously to help the icon tell its story.** Don't add color just to make the icon brighter. Also, smooth gradients typically work better than sharp delineations of color. (Note that sidebar icons and icons inside toolbar buttons should not use color; for more information, see ["Designing](#page-121-0) Toolbar Icons" (page 122) and ["Designing](#page-124-0) Sidebar Icons" (page 125).)  
Shadows give objects dimensionality and realism. They also help tie the elements of an icon together so that it doesn't look like a collage.  
**Choose the right perspective for your icon.** You want the perspective of your icon to match the perspective of other icons in the same genre. For example, a user app icon should look like it's resting on a desk in front of you, whereas most utility app icons use a straight-on perspective. Regardless of the perspective that's appropriate for your icon genre, always use a single light source with the light coming from above the icon. To learn more about light, shadows, and different icon perspectives, see "Using [Perspective](#page-113-0) and Texture to Reflect [Reality"](#page-113-0) (page 114).  
**Avoid mixing actual text with "Greek" text or wavy lines to suggest text.** If you want to show text in your icon but you don't want to draw attention to the words, start with actual text and make it hard to read by shrinking it or doubling the layers. Shrinking text also makes the details in your icon sharper for Retina display.  
For example, it's hard to read the text in the TextEdit app icon unless you increase its size. Although the text in this icon has meaning, users don't need to read it to see that TextEdit is a text-editing app.  
If your app is available in multiple languages, you may want to use "Greek" text or wavy linesto suggest generic text instead of using words in a specific language. Do not mix fake text with real text.  
**Create an idealized version of the subject rather than using a photo.** Although it can be appropriate to use a photo (or a screenshot) in an app icon, it's often better to augment reality in an artistic way. Creating an idealized version can help you emphasize the aspects of the subject that you want users to notice.  
If your app has a very recognizable UI, consider creating a refined representation of it instead of using an actual screenshot of your software in the app icon. Creating an enhanced version of the UI is particularly important when users could confuse a large version of the icon with the actual interface of the app.  
**Note:** If an app icon depicts an image that is effectively a precursor of what users see when they open the app, it should use the straight-on, "flat against the wall" perspective. It makes sense to use this perspective because users would never see the UI as if it were sitting on a desk.  
**Avoid using Aqua interface elements in your icons.** You don't want users to confuse your icons with the OS X UI.  
**Don't use replicas of Apple hardware products in your icons.** The symbols that represent Apple products are copyrighted and cannot be reproduced in your icons. In general, it's a good idea to avoid replicas of any specific devices in your icons. These designs change frequently, and icons that are based on them can look dated.  
<span id="page-113-0"></span>**Don't reuse OS X system icons in your interface.** It can confuse users to see the same icon used to mean slightly different things in multiple locations.