<!-- Chunk 53 | Source: 2012 OS X Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 371 -->
Ideally, users can easily figure out how to use your app without ever needing to read the user guide. But sometimes users need a little help understanding how to use an advanced feature or how to perform a variation of the main task. The guidelines in this section help you provide app help that doesn't get in the user's way; for detailed guidance on how to compose help content, see "User [Assistance"](#page-106-0) (page 107).  
**Provide help tags that describe how to use UI elements.** Help tags can appear when the user allows the pointer to rest over a UI element for a few seconds. A help tag consists of a small view that displays a succinct description of what the UI element does. Although it's best when the usage of your app's UI isinstantly apparent to users, help tags can be a good way to help novice users without annoying experienced users. Because a help tag's message is short and directly linked to a specific UI element, a help tag is not the appropriate place to describe a higher-level task.  
**Provide a help book that describes how to accomplish tasks in your app.** Users open an app's help book when they can't figure out how to accomplish their goal. Although users might also refer to a help book to find out how to use a specific control, they're more likely to be seeking help with a higher-level task. For this reason, your help book should be task-based, and for the most part, it should describe control usage in the context of accomplishing a task.