<!-- Chunk 190 | Source: 1996 Newton 2.0 User Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 434 -->
Quite often the Assistant knows what action to take but does not have enough information to complete that action. The Assistant tries to fill in as much of the required information as it can, but the user may still have to resolve ambiguities or provide additional information. In that case the Assistant displays a task slip.  
For example, if a user writes the request "fax Bob," the Assistant can get Bob's fax number from the Names File application. But what if Bob has no fax number or more than one fax number? What if there is more than one Bob or no one named Bob? Even if there is only one Bob with one fax number, the user may want to add another fax number, another Bob, or a message on the fax cover page.  
The task slip for any built-in action is the same as or similar to the slip a user sees when performing the action without the Assistant. For routing actions printing, faxing, mailing, or calling—the task slip is a routing slip (see ["Routing Slips" on page 7-12](#page-217-0)). For scheduling meetings and remembering To Do items, the task slip is similar to the slip the Date Book application displays for creating a new meeting or To Do task. For finding, the task slip is the standard Find slip (see ["Find" on page 8-6\)](#page-247-0).  
<span id="page-269-0"></span>Besides providing a means of correcting missing or ambiguous information, a task slip also gives a user one last chance to confirm or cancel execution of the task before the Assistant actually takes action. It's especially important to provide this opportunity to confirm, modify, or cancel the task if executing it will change the user's current context (open other applications), modify the user's data, or inconvenience the user in some way.