<!-- Chunk 62 | Source: 1996 Newton 2.0 User Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 590 -->
On a Newton device there is no single active view or active application, because all visible views and applications are active. Most views, both movable and stationary, allow users full access to the visible parts of other views. If a user can see a place to tap, write, or draw outside a view, the user can usually do it. A user can even interact with some applications that aren't visible by using the system's Find service or its Intelligent Assistant service (described in [Chapter 8, "Newton Services"\)](#page-242-0).  
Naturally, a small movable view affords the most access to other views behind it. A stationary view only allows access to what a user can see around it. A large movable view—larger than half the height or width of a Newton device's screen—will always block some part of what's behind it. (A user can't move a view partially off the screen.)  
It is possible for an application to take over the screen, putting users in the state, or mode, of being able to work only inside one view. The application temporarily suspends access to other views that may be visible. It forces the user to make decisions before doing any other actions, such as adding or changing information in a visible application. Users can cancel a modal view, they can respond to a message in it, or they can use a modal view to set parameters or assign values that become content in a view to which the modal view is subordinate. If users tap in other views, nothing happens. Users must attend to the one modal view and must close it before they can use other views. Users can put away a modal view only by tapping one of its controls.  
How Views Work **2-29**  
<span id="page-73-0"></span>Although modeless views give users more flexibility, modal views have the advantage of being less ambiguous. Nothing a user does in a modal view should take effect until the user taps a button to confirm the state of the modal view. A modal view avoids intermediate states that can occur with a modeless view, where a user's changes take effect without the user being aware that this is happening.  
You can use modal views when your application needs information before it can continue. A modal view is fairly simple to implement, but that doesn't mean that you should use modal views too freely. You should rarely restrict the user's actions by forcing the user into a mode.