<!-- Chunk 169 | Source: 1996 Newton 2.0 User Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 705 -->
An application can send an item programmatically, using a specific transport, without any user intervention. (The Action button is not used in this case.) For example, an application might have a transport make a connection whenever a user opens the application, and break the connection when the user closes the application. Another application might poll for data, such as pager messages, and could have a transport poll more frequently (and use more power) while the application is open than when the application is closed.  
If your application has its own method for routing apart from the Action button, it can display a routing slip for the user to confirm or cancel the action as well as specify additional routing information. If your application routes items programmatically to an e-mail, fax, or call transport, you may want to allow users to choose the recipient. Your application can use the same method as the built-in routing slips (see ["Choosing Fax or E-mail](#page-221-0)  [Recipients" on page 7-16](#page-221-0)). If you want to provide a way for users to select a different printer, your application can use the same printer-selection method as the Print routing slip (see ["Choosing a Printer" on page 7-15\)](#page-220-0). Before instituting a programmed routing action, you may want to allow the user to choose a format for the item being sent. Your application can get a list of formats that can handle the item. Using this list, the application could make available a picker from which the user could choose a format. You may also want to allow the user to choose a transport for the item being sent. Your application can get a list of transports that can handle specific formats. Using this list, the application could make available a picker from which the user could choose a transport.  
<span id="page-242-0"></span>This chapter describes the user interface for Newton system services not described in other chapters. Topics include:  
- How the system automatically indicates it is busy
- How your application or transport can allow users to hide and show status slips
- What your application should do if it schedules alarms or other actions
- What role sound should play in your application or transport
- How your application should enable users to find data in it
- How your application should enable users to file their data in folders
- How your application or transport can have the Intelligent Assistant respond to a user's written request for action
- Where and how to provide users with on-screen help
- Where and how to provide user preference settings for your application or transport  
All these topics are described in terms of the applications and transports that come with most Apple MessagePad models. Applications and transports you develop should follow these models.