<!-- Chunk 229 | Source: 2006-10 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 664 -->
The user shows or hides a drawer, typically by clicking a button or choosing a command. If a drawer contains a valid drop target,you mayalsowant to open the drawerwhen the user drags an appropriate object to where the drawer appears.  
When a drawer opens or closes, it appears to be sliding from behind its parent window, to the left, right, or down. You should ensure that a parent window's default position allows its drawer to open fully without disappearing offscreen. If a user moves a parent window to the edge of the screen and then opens a drawer, it should open on the side of the window that has room. If the user makes a window so big that there's no room on either side, the drawer opens off the screen.  
To support the illusion that a closed drawer is hidden behind its parent window, an open drawer should be smaller than its parent window. When the parent window is resized vertically, an open drawer resizes, if necessary, to ensure that it does not exceed the height of the parent window. (A drawer can be shorter than its parent window.) The illusion is further reinforced by the fact that the inner border of a drawer is hidden by the parent window and that the parent window's shadow is seen on the drawer when appropriate.  
The user can resize an open drawer by dragging its outside border. The degree to which a drawer can be resized is determined bythe content of the drawer. If the userresizes a drawer significantly—to the pointwhere content is mostlyobscured—the drawer should simplyclose.For example, if a drawer contains a scrolling list, the user should be able to resize the drawer to cover up the edge of the list. But if the user makes the drawer so small that the items in the list are difficult to identify, the drawer should close. If the user sets a new size (if that is possible) for a drawer, the new size should be used the next time the drawer is opened.  
A drawer should maintain its state (open or closed) when its parent window becomes inactive or when the window is closed and then reopened. When a parent window with an open drawer is minimized, the drawer should close; the drawer should reopen when the window is made active again.  
A drawer can contain any control that is appropriate to its intended use. Follow normal layout guidelines, as stated in ["Positioning](#page-288-1) Full-Size Controls" (page 289).  
<span id="page-185-0"></span>Consider a drawer part of the parentwindow; don't dim a drawer's controlswhen the parentwindow has focus, and vice versa. When full keyboard access is on, a drawer's contents should be included in the window components that the user can select by pressing Tab.