<!-- Chunk 59 | Source: 2006-10 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 661 -->
Millions of people have a disability or special need and computers hold tremendous promise for increasing the productivity of such users. Many countries, including the United States, have laws mandating that certain equipment provide access for users with a disability.  
It's a good idea to build in support for universal access from the beginning of your design process rather than add it at the end of your implementation cycle. When you think about designing for the wide range of abilities in your target audience, think about increasing productivity for the entire audience; be careful not to overcompensate for the disabilities of certain members. Don't let accommodations for a particular disabilitycreate a burden for peoplewho do not have that disability.  
Mac OS X has many built-in features designed to accommodate people with special needs. Users can access these features in the Universal Access pane of System Preferences. Once activated, these technologies programmatically manipulate the user interface of your application in ways that can help users with disabilities.  
**Important:** Your application should not override any of the accessibility features built in to Mac OS X, such as the ability to perform all user interface functions using the keyboard instead of the mouse, or any preference that a user might select to assist with a disability.  
Be sure to test your applications with the assistive features available in the Universal Access pane of System Preferences. Although there may be situations in which you do not need to accommodate all these features, you should fully understand your user audience before making any design decisions that override these features. For example, it might be extremely difficult to create a visual design tool that works in grayscale, but you should still try to make the other parts of the program accessible whenever possible.  
To learn more about the Mac OS X accessibility architecture and how to support accessibility in your application (a process called access enabling), see *Accessibility Overview*. For more information on assistive technologies, see *Mac OS X Technology Overview*.  
When you design your application, you should be aware of potential manipulation by assistive technologies and implement features in a way that does not degrade the experience for users with disabilities. The following sections describe the main categories of disabilities and give suggestions for specific design solutions and adaptations you can make. Keep in mind that there is a wide range of disabilities within each category and there are many people with multiple disabilities.