<!-- Chunk 32 | Source: 2006-10 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1417 -->
<span id="page-31-4"></span>An easy-to-use program offers a compelling, intuitive experience forthe user. It offers elegant solutions to complex problems and has a well thought out interface that uses familiar paradigms. It is easy to install and configure because it makes intelligent choices for the user, but it also gives the user the option to override those choices when needed. It presents the user with tools that are relevant in the current context, eliminating or disabling irrelevant tools. It also warns the user against performing dangerous actions and provides ways to undo those actions if taken.  
Here are some guidelines to keep in mind when designing for ease of use:  
#### Characteristics of Great Software  
- <span id="page-32-2"></span>■ In your userinterface, use metaphors thatrepresent concrete, familiarideas. Makeyour metaphors obvious so that users can more easily apply a set of expectations to the computer environment. For example, Mac OS X uses the metaphor of file folders for storing documents. For more information, see ["Metaphors"](#page-38-2) (page 39).
- Focus on solutions, not features. Avoid adding features solely for competitive reasons. Make sure every feature offers real benefit to your users. See "Making Design [Decisions"](#page-27-0) (page 28) for additional information.
- <span id="page-32-7"></span><span id="page-32-0"></span>■ Make sure your packaging clearly indicates the system requirements and contains everything the user needs to get started immediately. See ["Packaging"](#page-76-1) (page 77) for more information.
- <span id="page-32-9"></span><span id="page-32-8"></span>■ Establish intelligent default settings for your program. Avoid requiring a lengthy configuration process. Consider providing a setup assistant if you need information from the user (see ["Setup](#page-79-0) [Assistants](#page-79-0) " (page 80) for more information). Provide your users with appropriate initial settings and give them the option to change those settings using preferences or options palettes.
- <span id="page-32-1"></span>■ Try not to overwhelm users by presentingtoo much information at once. Use progressive disclosure to reveal information as it is needed and give users the option to hide information they don't consider useful. See "Managing [Complexity](#page-46-0) in Your Software " (page 47) for additional information.
- <span id="page-32-4"></span>■ Bundle your application. Application bundles are the preferred mechanism for software distribution. They simplify installation and are easy to move around in the Finder. See *Bundle Programming Guide* for guidelines on how to support bundles.
- <span id="page-32-3"></span>■ If you are a hardware developer, support published standards for plug-and-play hardware. Mac OS X supports many published hardware standards for USB and FireWire devices such as mice, keyboards, and hard drives. If you follow these standards, new devices should "just work" when plugged into the computer and not require custom device drivers. See *I/O Kit Fundamentals* for information on built-in driver support.
- <span id="page-32-5"></span>■ Avoid the assumption that a single user is logged in and that the current user has access to the console. Fast user switching means that multiple instances of your application could be running simultaneously. Your application should be ready to handle this situation appropriately. See *Multiple User Environments* for information on how to operate safely when fast user switching is enabled.
- <span id="page-32-6"></span>■ Provide useful error messages to userswhen something doesgowrong. An error message should clearly convey what happened, why it happened, and the options for proceeding. Offer a workaround if one is available and do whatever you can to prevent the user from losing any data. See ["Alerts"](#page-209-1) (page 210) for more information on how to provide useful error messages.
- Use display names in your userinterface in place ofrawpathnames and filenames. Display names take into account the user's established language preferences and filename extension preferences. See*FileSystem Overview* for more information on display names and guidelines on howto support them.
- Let users explore the features of your application without causing irreversible damage to their data. Support features such as Undo and Redo. You might also want to support a Revert feature for files.
- Internationalize your software. Provide localized versions whenever possible. Users feel more comfortable using a program that is in their native language. See ["Internationalization"](#page-57-0) (page 58) for additional information.  
#### Characteristics of Great Software  
- <span id="page-33-1"></span>■ Make your application accessible to people with disabilities. Assistive applications interact with your application and allow people with disabilities to use it. Although much support for accessibility is provided automatically by the system, there are things you can do to improve that support. See Getting Started With [Accessibility](http://developer.apple.com/referencelibrary/GettingStarted/GS_Accessibility/index.html) for an overview of available information.
- <span id="page-33-4"></span>■ Provide appropriate documentation foryour software. Apple Help is an HTML-based help system that letsyou integrate documentation intoyour application. See User Experience Help Technologies Documentation for information on how to incorporate Apple Help into your applications.  
For high-level information on designing an easy-to-use interface, see "Human [Interface](#page-38-1) Design [Principles"](#page-38-1) (page 39).