<!-- Chunk 172 | Source: 2006-10 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 1300 -->
When it appears in the name of a button or a menu item, an **ellipsis** character (…) indicates to the user that additional information is required before the associated operation can be performed. Specifically, it prepares the user to expect the appearance of a window or dialog in which to make selections or enter information before the command executes. Because users expect instant action from buttons and menu items (as described in ["Buttons"](#page-230-1) (page 231) and "Menu [Behavior"](#page-148-1) (page 149)), it's especially important to prepare them for this alternate behavior by appropriately displaying the ellipsis character. The followingguidelines and exampleswill help you decidewhen to use an ellipsis in menu item and button names.  
Use an ellipsis in the name of a button or menu item when the associated action:  
- Requires specific input from the user.
- For example, the Open, Find, and Print commands all use an ellipsis because the user must select or input the item to open, find, or print. The Save As command uses an ellipsis because it allows the user to give the file or document a new name, location, or both.
- You can think of commands of this type as needing the answer to a specific question (such as "Find what?") before executing.
- Is performed by the user in a separate window or dialog.
- For example, Preferences, Customize Toolbar, and Send Feedback all use an ellipsis because they open a window (potentially in another application, such as a browser) or a dialog in which the user sets preferences, customizes the toolbar, or sends feedback.
- To see why such commands must include an ellipsis, consider that the absence of an ellipsis implies that the application performs the action for the user. If, for example, the Send Feedback command did not include an ellipsis, it would imply that feedback is generated and sent automatically by the application.
- *Always* displays an alert that warns the user of a potentially dangerous outcome and offers an alternative.  
For example, Restart, Shut Down, and Log Out all use an ellipsis because they always display an alert that asks the user for confirmation and allows the user to cancel the action. Note that Close does not have an ellipsis because it displays an alert only in certain circumstances (specifically, only when the document or file being closed has unsaved changes).  
Before you consider providing a command that always displays an alert, determine if it's really necessary to get the user's approval every time. Displaying too many alerts asking for user confirmation can dilute the effectiveness of alerts.  
Don't use an ellipsis in the name of a button or menu item when the associated action:  
- Does not require specific input from the user.
- For example, the New, Save, and Copy commands do not use an ellipsis because either the user has already provided the necessaryinformation or no user input is required. That is, Newalways opens a new document or window, Save automatically saves the currently active document, and Copy copies the user's most recently selected text or item to the Clipboard.
- Is completed by the opening of a utility window.
- A user opens a utilitywindowto viewinformation about an item ortokeep essential, task-oriented controls available at all times (for more information about utility windows, see ["Utility](#page-201-0) [Windows"](#page-201-0) (page 202)). A command to open a utility window, therefore, is completed by the display of the window and should not have an ellipsis in its name. Examples of such commands are Get Info, About This Application, and Show Inspector.
- *Occasionally* displays an alert that warns the user of a potentially dangerous outcome.
- If you use an ellipsis in the name of a button or menu item that only sometimes displays an alert, you cause the userto expect somethingthatwill not always happen. This makesyour application's user interface inconsistent and confusing. Therefore, even though Quit and Close displayan alert if the execution of the action might result in the loss of data (such as when there are unsaved changes in a document), they do not displayan alertwhen no data loss is possible.Forthis reason, commands such as Quit and Close should not include an ellipsis.  
An ellipsis character can also showthat there is more text than there is room to displayin a document title or list item. If, for example, the name of an item is too long to fit in a menu or list box, you should insert an ellipsis character in the middle of the name, preserving the beginning and the end of the name. This ensures that the parts of the name that are most likely to be unique are still visible.  
<span id="page-123-0"></span>**Important:** Be sure to create the ellipsis character using the key combination Option-; (Option-semicolon). This ensures that an assistive application can provide the correct interpretation of the characterto a disabled user. Ifyou use 3 period characters to simulate an ellipsis, manyassistive applications will be unable to make sense of them. Also, 3 period characters and an ellipsis do not look the same because the periods are spaced differently than the points of an ellipsis.