<!-- Chunk 104 | Source: 2006-10 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 855 -->
When designing your product's installation package, keep the following guidelines in mind:  
- Before installing anything, your installer should check the destination volume for previously installed application components.
- Always provide userswith a simple default installation (an "EasyInstall"). Most products should also provide a custom installation; if a user has accidentally thrown away a particular file, for example, the user should be able to restore it without having to reinstall the whole application. (Your application can also check for required files every time it runs and automatically install them if they are missing.)
- Provide choices and explain their impact. For example, one installation option could result in faster performance but consume more diskspace; another might use less space butresult in slower performance. Be sure to make these choices clear in terms that will be meaningful to your users.
- Always let users choose a specific folder as the installation destination. Don't require your application to be installed in a particular location.
- Install files onlyin recommended locations. (For a list of system directories and theirrecommended content, see *File System Overview*.) If users want to delete your application for some reason, most will simply drag its icon to the Trash; avoid littering the user's hard disk with remnant files. If your product uses an installer, it should include an uninstall option that lets the user delete all associated files.
- Advise users about data that might be overwritten during the installation, and provide a way for them to back it up first. Don't overwrite previous user preferences. Deal with version and format differences the first time the user opens the updated application.  
Installation **79**  
- Provide help where appropriate. For example, in a custom installation pane, clicking a More Info button should explain why the user would want to install the component and the consequences of not installing it.
- Don't uninstall any of the Apple system software in /System.
- Ifyour application installs software that mayalreadybe installed on the user's system, make sure the version you install is newerthan any version the user already has. Make it clearto userswhich version they already have and which version your application needs, and provide an option for skipping installation of that software.
- Indicate progress duringinstallation, such as the current stage and the time remaining.Forrelated information, see "Feedback and [Communication"](#page-41-2) (page 42).
- Provide a Cancel button. If canceling the installation would compromise the system's stability, disable the button during those times. If a user cancels an installation, leave the destination disk in the same state it was in before the installation (in other words, delete any files installed before the process was canceled).
- Consider installing any supporting files when the user first launches your application. This technique alleviates the need to create an installation package and makes it possible for your application to reinstall the files if they are accidentally deleted by the user.
- Consider your application's audience. It's common, for example, for children to install their own games at home, so tailor your instructions for them (don't use confusing or technical terms) and make installation as easy as possible for that audience.