---
chunk_index: 681
ref: "0e52460982c4"
id: "0e52460982c473413ac438b31be5a86096937356dc1377ed0b64411dcb1a5af8"
slug: "chunk-027"
path: "marker/1986-07 Human Interface Guidelines (Second Beta Draft)/chunks/chunk_027.md"
kind: "markdown"
lines: [1, 4]
token_estimate: 377
content_sha256: "ca0e49d90eba7d6ec3375ca7e66d8bede224a77ed5d1f320f2b68877687e58e3"
compacted: false
heading_path: []
symbol: null
address: null
asset_path: null
---

<!-- Chunk 27 | Source: 1986-07 Human Interface Guidelines (Second Beta Draft).pdf | Est. Tokens: 350 -->
The oldest, and still the best, design maxim is *simple design is good design*. Don't clutter the screen with too many windows, overload the user with complex icons, or put dozens of buttons in a dialog box. Because there isn't a lot of space in an icon or dialog box, the messages conveyed there must be simple and straightforward. For example, the icon of a trashcan should be a simple representation of that familiar object; the essence of trashcans distilled into a single image that people can easily understand. Simple designs are easy to use and to learn and and help give the interface a consistent look.  
Keep in mind that the icons, menus, and other graphic elements on the screen together make up a basic language that the user and the computer use to communicate. The user selects an icon and chooses an action from a menu. Together these actions tell the computer something, like open MacPaint. In order for this language to work well, the messages must be simple.  
If you expect your application to be used in more than one country, be aware of cultural differences. Words aren't the only things that change from country to country. Telephones and mailboxes, to name just two examples often used in telecommunications programs, don't look the same in all parts of the world. Either make your graphics culturally neutral, or be prepared to create alternate graphics for various cultures.