---
chunk_index: 368
ref: "5a035f2b18f9"
id: "5a035f2b18f963021f2b5b9630ae3be55db717739789c0304ddf1ad7b5b3ae7d"
slug: "chunk-037"
path: "marker/1985 Apple II Human Interface Guidelines/chunks/chunk_037.md"
kind: "markdown"
lines: [1, 16]
token_estimate: 390
content_sha256: "582e2194140351cc5626497543e1e63ac971c5413314e2f1f3fcb3ccb8e174bc"
compacted: false
heading_path: []
symbol: null
address: null
asset_path: null
---

<!-- Chunk 37 | Source: 1985 Apple II Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 367 -->
We have shown the menu items sequentially numbered. Numbering has the advantage of not requiring the user to be typewriter-literate, an important consideration when writing for young children. You may want to work out a milemonic lettering scheme, but if you do so, use first letters only and do not repeat any letter more than once anywhere in the program. You should also consider future growth: most of the truly horrifying mmemonic systems started out small, but as the software evolved, they got out of hand.  
Sequentially numbered menus should display the number followed by a period and two spaces. If you are using icons, follow the icon by two spaces:  
- 1. Eat
- 2. Drink
- 3. <BE MERRY>  
The highlighting scheme does not work well on numbered menus with more than 9 items: as it turns out, neither do people. If you have this many items, you should separate them into two or more categories and create more menus.  
Sequentially lettered menus are usually quite difficult for non-touch-typists to handle, but should you use them, use the same format as for numbered menus:  
- A. Do this
- B. <DO THAT>
- C. Do the other  
Mnemonically lettered menus display hyphens instead of periods and look like this:  
- C Create layout
- P <PRINT-OUT LAYOUT>
- B Bill the customer  
Note that there is an extra space before the hyphen, but there are still two spaces after it, to allow room for the < or inverse space. Again, only the option itself is highlighted.