---
chunk_index: 3827
ref: "b8f71c74b953"
id: "b8f71c74b95339892459a1be81bb3fddf5d43262712bb24cc374a0032eeb2eb3"
slug: "chunk-183"
path: "marker/1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3/chunks/chunk_183.md"
kind: "markdown"
lines: [1, 13]
token_estimate: 394
content_sha256: "50c9bbf05495c00f1e08a517dab463cfecbeb70b25a213d83b8c39d4ee9a8249"
compacted: false
heading_path: []
symbol: null
address: null
asset_path: null
---

<!-- Chunk 183 | Source: 1993 NeXTSTEP User Interface Guidelines - Release 3.pdf | Est. Tokens: 367 -->
Your application should use its own unique file name extensions to identify (and help the Workspace Manager identify) its documents. Your extension (after its initial period) can include only alphabetic and numeric characters and should be at least three characters long. (NeXT reserves all extensions of under three characters for its own use.) For example, ".example" is an acceptable extension, but ".eg" is not, since it has only two characters after the period.  
To request that an extension be registered and reserved for your use, write to:  
NeXT Technical Services Extension Registry 900 Chesapeake Drive Redwood City, CA 94063  
You can also send your request by electronic mail to ask\_next@NeXT.COM or .. .! next ! ask\_next.  
The request should include the following information:  
- The file name extension you want to register. List a first and a second choice.
- The name of the application the request is for.
- Your name and the name of your company.
- Your postal address and your electronic mail address, if you have one.
- Your telephone number.  
You'll be informed when the extension is registered, or if it can't be for any reason. NeXT Technical Services will make the list of registered extensions available to you so that you can choose an extension not already assigned.  
Registering a file name extension reserves it for your use. If you fail to register an extension that you intend to use, someone else may register and use it instead.