---
chunk_index: 341
ref: "d1b6979c0187"
id: "d1b6979c018716543ea613b1bf4a487b6ff1a112b1034d97311aae881ae37ea8"
slug: "chunk-010"
path: "marker/1985 Apple II Human Interface Guidelines/chunks/chunk_010.md"
kind: "markdown"
lines: [1, 5]
token_estimate: 449
content_sha256: "2eed9c58898cb9bcf4a0ae620f3830a9ead6dfcdbe9de810ea996ed29327252f"
compacted: false
heading_path: []
symbol: null
address: null
asset_path: null
---

<!-- Chunk 10 | Source: 1985 Apple II Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 425 -->
People can and do master some remarkably complex computer programs, such as AppleWorks (TM) and Apple Writer (TM). Other, far less powerful programs leave people so bewildered they often abandon even trying to learn them. With AppleWorks and Apple Writer, you learn a little bit and can then begin to do useful work; with these other programs, you must first learn virtually everything before you can do anything at all.  
Design your programs and manuals so that a person can learn to do something useful within 30 minutes or less. Stage your learning out so that one can pick up tricks and shortcuts along the way, but needn't stumble over them at the beginning. Remember that you want a salesperson in a computer store to learn enough to be able to demo your program: with the thousands of programs on the market, he or she doesn't have more than half an hour to pick it up. And people won't demo something that is going to make them look like a fool.  
It is all right to be redundant: in a word-processor, have a menu selection which turns on bold-facing, but also allow the experienced touch-typist to press CONTROL-B and get the same effect. In our blinking-bar input routine, the user quickly sees he can forward-delete by moving forward and then pressing Delete, but we have Control-F there for when he or she is ready to learn the "magic" forward-delete shortcut.  
By sticking to your own and Apple's guidelines, by letting beginners do the most important things in the simplest, if not most efficient, way at the beginning, by considering the plight of the salesman who will promote this product for you, you are going to significantly increase the learnability and success of your product.