<!-- Chunk 303 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 535 -->
Rectangular-style toolbar controls are available in Interface Builder. In the Interface Builder library, these controls are called Round Textured Buttons. To create one using Application Kit programming interfaces, use the setBezelStyle: method of NSButtonCell with NSTexturedRoundedBezelStyle as the argument.  
The blue glow you see behind the calendar image in the iCal segmented control (shown in [Figure](#page-252-0) 15-4 (page 253)) is an effect Application Kit provides under some circumstances. The effect indicates an on state in a properly configured segmented control that behaves like a set of checkboxes or a button that behaves like a toggle button. Although it is possible that the precise appearance of this on-state look may change in future releases of Mac OS X, you can continue to receive appropriate on-state processing if you configure these two controls as described here.  
To provide a segmented control that displays an on-state appearance (similar to the segmented control in the iCal bottom bar), use an NSSegmentedControl object with style NSSegmentStyleTexturedRounded and mode NSSegmentSwitchTrackingSelectAny. If you're using Interface Builder, place a Segmented Control object in your toolbar or bottom bar; in the Attributes pane of the inspector, set the style to Textured Rounded and the mode to Select Any. Be sure to provide an image for the control (in Interface Builder, select an image from the Image combo box in the Attributes pane of the inspector).  
To provide a toggle-style button that displays an on-state appearance, use an NSButton object with style NSTexturedRoundedBezelStyle, with which you've associated an image. Be sure the button cell's showsStateBy mask contains NSContentsCellMask. This means that Application Kit uses the alternate image and title when the cell's state is NSOnState. However, to get the on-state glow do *not* provide an alternate image. If you're using Interface Builder, place a Rounded Textured Button object in your toolbar or bottom bar; in the Attributes pane of the inspector, set the mode to Toggle, provide an image, and do not provide an alternate image.