<!-- Chunk 180 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 646 -->
Abbreviations and acronyms can save space in a user interface, but they can be confusing if users do not know what they mean. Conversely, some abbreviations and acronyms are better known than the words or phrases they stand for, and an application that uses the spelled-out version can seem out-of-date and unnecessarily wordy.  
To balance these two considerations, you should gauge an acronym or abbreviation in terms of its appropriatenessfor your application's users. Therefore, before you decide which abbreviations and acronyms to use, you need to define your user audience and understand the user's mental model of the task your application performs. For more information on these concepts, see "Know Your [Audience"](#page-24-2) (page 25) and ["Reflect](#page-38-3) the User's Mental Model" (page 39)  
To help you decide whether or not to use a specific abbreviation or acronym in your application's user interface, consider the following questions:  
- Is this an acronym or abbreviation that your users understand and feel comfortable with? For example, almost all users are used to using CD asthe abbreviation for compact disc,so even applicationsintended for novice users can use this abbreviation.
- On the other hand, an application intended for users who work with color spaces and color printing can use CMYK (which stands for cyan magenta yellow key), even though this abbreviation might not be familiar to a broader range of users.
- Is the spelled-out word or phrase less recognizable than the acronym or abbreviation? For example, many users are unaware that Cc originally stood for the phrase carbon copy, the practice of using carbon paper to produce multiple copies of paper documents. In addition, the meanings of Cc and carbon copy have diverged so that they are no longersynonymous. Using carbon copy in place of Cc, therefore, would be confusing to users.  
For some abbreviations and acronyms, the precise spelled-out word or phrase is equivocal. For example, DVD originally stood for both digital video disc and digital versatile disc. Because of this ambiguity, it's not helpful to use either phrase; it's much clearer to use DVD.  
If you use a potentially unfamiliar acronym or abbreviation in the user help book for your application, be sure to define it when you first use it. In addition, you should enable searching on your help book so users can easily find definitions of unfamiliar terms. See "User [Assistance"](#page-79-0) (page 80) for an overview of help technologies and *Apple Help Programming Guide* for details on working with Apple Help.