<!-- Chunk 277 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 519 -->
Mac OS X applications can use these types of dialogs:  
- **Modeless**. A modeless dialog enables users to change settings in a dialog while still interacting with document windows; the Find window in many word processors is an example of a modeless dialog. Most modeless dialogs include only the close button title-bar control, because users usually interact briefly with a modeless dialog and then close it, they do not need to zoom it or minimize it.
- **Document modal**. A document-modal dialog prevents the user from doing anything else within a particular document. The user can switch to other documentsin the application and to other applications. Document-modal dialogs should be sheets, which are discussed in "Sheets [\(Document-Modal](#page-230-1) [Dialogs\)"](#page-230-1) (page 231).  
<span id="page-230-2"></span>■ **Application modal**. An application-modal dialog prevents the user from doing anything else within the owner application, although the user can switch to another application. Most application-modal dialogs do not have the standard title bar controls (close, minimize, zoom); the user dismisses these dialogs by clicking a push button, such as OK or Cancel. Application-modal dialogs that appear as the result of the user choosing a command, such as the Open dialog in [Figure](#page-239-1) 14-55 (page 240) should display a title that matches the command.  
An alert can be document modal or application modal. If the error condition or notification appliesto a single document, the alert should be document modal (that is, a sheet). See the Save Changes alert in [Figure](#page-230-0) [14-46](#page-230-0) (page 231) for an example. If the alert appliesto the state of the application as a whole, or to more than one document or window belonging to that application, the alert should be application modal. Both the Review Changes alert for multiple unsaved documents ([Figure](#page-244-0) 14-60 (page 245)) and the Save Changes alert for applications that are not document-based [\(Figure](#page-243-0) 14-59 (page 244)) are application modal.