<!-- Chunk 100 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 490 -->
With **Apple Help**, you can display HTML filesin **Help Viewer**, a browser-like application designed for displaying and searching help documents. Help Viewer can also display documents containing QuickTime content, open AppleScript-based automations, retrieve updated help content from the Internet, and provide context-sensitive assistance.  
<span id="page-79-6"></span>Users can access Apple Help by launching the Help Viewer application but they will more commonly access it from your application, in one of three ways:  
- <span id="page-79-5"></span>■ **The Help menu.** The Help menu is the far-right item in the application region of the menu bar. When you register your help book with Help Viewer, the first item in the Help menu is the system-provided Spotlight For Help search field. The second item in the menu should be *ApplicationName* Help, which opens Help Viewer to the first page of your help content. For more information on the Help menu, see "The Help [Menu"](#page-182-0) (page 183).
- <span id="page-79-9"></span><span id="page-79-4"></span>■ **Help buttons.** When necessary, you can use a Help button to provide easy access to specific sections of your help. When a user clicks a Help button, send either a search term or an anchor lookup (which leads to a specific page or pages) to Help Viewer. It's not necessary for every dialog and window in your application to have a Help button. If there is no contextually relevant information in the help, don't display a Help button.
- **From a contextual menu item.** If contextually appropriate help content is available for the object being pointed to, the first item in the contextual menu is Help. As with Help buttons, the menu item can send either a search term or an anchor lookup to Help Viewer.  
<span id="page-79-7"></span><span id="page-79-2"></span>See *Apple Help Programming Guide* for more information on writing Apple Help content and providing it with your application.