<!-- Chunk 390 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 468 -->
Sliders support live feedback (live dragging), so they're especially useful when you want users to be able to see the effects of moving a slider in real time. For example, users can watch the size of Dock icons change as they move the Dock Size slider in Dock preferences.  
To decide whether a slider should be linear or circular (and, if linear, whether it should be horizontal or vertical), examine the user's mental model of the task your application performs and try to meet their expectations of similar real-world controls. (You can learn more about the user's mental model in ["Reflect](#page-38-3) the User's Mental [Model"](#page-38-3) (page 39).) For example, the circular slider in Figure 15-49 allows users to choose the angle of the drop shadow displayed for an object. The circular slider not only displays the full range of values (0 to 360 degrees) in a compact way, it also mirrors the placement of the drop shadow itself as it is displayed on different sides of the object.  
On the other hand, a linear slider is appropriate in Energy Saver preferences (shown in [Figure](#page-295-1) 15-48 (page 296)) because the values range from very small (the screen saver should start after 3 minutes) to very large (the screen saver should never start) and do not increase at consistent intervals. In this case, a linear slider brings to mind a number line that stretches from the origin to infinity.  
You can display tick marks with both linear and circular sliders. In general, you should display tick marks when it's important for users to understand the scale of the measurements or when users need to be able to select specific values. If, on the other hand, users don't need to be aware of the specific values the slider passesthrough (asin the Dock size and magnification preferences, for example), you might choose to display a slider without tick marks.