<!-- Chunk 94 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 412 -->
Preference settings are user-defined parameters that your software remembers from session to session. Preferences can be a way for your application to offer choices to users about how the application runs. Preferences often affect the behavior of the application or the default appearance of content created with the application.  
To reduce the complexity of your application, be picky about which features should have preferences and which should not. Avoid implementing all the preferences you can think of. Instead, be decisive and focus your preferences on the features users might really want to modify.  
A preference should be a setting that the user changes infrequently. If a user might change the attributes of a feature many times in a work session, avoid using preferences to set those attributes. Instead, give the user modeless access to the controls for modifying that feature. For example, you might implement the feature using a menu item or a control in a palette or window.  
Because a user does not change preference settingsfrequently, you should not provide a preferencestoolbar item. Instead, provide access to application-level preferences in the application menu (see "The [Application](#page-172-1) [Menu"](#page-172-1) (page 173) for more information) and to document-specific preferencesin the File menu (see ["The](#page-174-0) File [Menu"](#page-174-0) (page 175) for more information).  
For information on implementing preferences with Cocoa, see *User Defaults Programming Topics for Cocoa*. For information on implementing preferences with Core Foundation, see *Preferences Programming Topics for Core Foundation*.