<!-- Chunk 51 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 536 -->
<span id="page-45-3"></span>As much as possible, allow users to do whatever they want at all times. Avoid using modes that lock them into one operation and prevent them from working on anything else until that operation is completed.  
Mac OS X supports enhanced modelessness with drawers and sheets. Drawers provide additional functionality while allowing continued accessto the parent window. Sheets are modal dialogs attached to a parent window, replacing the use of application-modal dialogs. For more information about drawers, see ["Drawers"](#page-208-0) (page 209). For more information about sheets, see "Sheets [\(Document-Modal](#page-230-1) Dialogs)" (page 231).  
Most acceptable uses of modes fall into one of the following categories:  
- Short-term modes in which the user must constantly do something to maintain the mode. Examples are holding down the mouse button to scroll text or holding down the Shift key to extend a text selection.
- Alerts, in which the user must rectify an unusual situation before proceeding. Keep these to a minimum.
- Installers and Assistants whose sole purpose is to guide users through important tasks.  
Other modes are acceptable if they do one of the following:  
- They emulate a familiar real-life situation that is itself modal. For example, choosing different tools in a graphics application resembles the real-life choice of physical drawing tools.
- They change only the attributes of something, not its behavior. The boldface and underline modes of text entry are examples.
- They block most other normal operation of the system to emphasize the modality. An example is a dialog that makes all menu commands unavailable except Cut, Copy, and Paste.  
<span id="page-45-1"></span>If an application uses modes, there must be a clear visual indicator of the current mode, and it should be very easy for users to get into and out of the mode. For example, in many graphics applications, the pointer can look like a pencil, a cross, a paintbrush, or an eraser, depending on the function (the mode) the user selects. Segmented controls are also useful to indicate modes, as is done in iPhoto.