<!-- Chunk 36 | Source: 2008-06 Apple Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 690 -->
Interoperability refers to a program's ability to communicate across environments. This communication can occur at either the user or the program level and can involve processes on the current computer or on remote computers. At the program level, an interoperable program supports ways to move data back and forth between itself and other programs. It might therefore support the pasteboard and be able to read file formats from other programs on either the same or a different platform. It also makes sure that the data it creates can be read by other programs on the system.  
<span id="page-35-7"></span><span id="page-35-5"></span>Users see interoperability in features such as the pasteboard (the Clipboard in the user interface), drag and drop, AppleScript, Bonjour, and services in the Services menu. All these features provide ways for the user to get data into or out of an application.  
Here are some guidelines to keep in mind as you design your software for interoperability:  
- Avoid custom file formats whenever possible to ensure that users can easily exchange documents with users of other programs. If you must use custom file formats, provide import and export capabilities to allow users to exchange data with other applications.
- Use the same file format on all supported platforms. Make sure documents created by your application on one platform can be read by your application on other platforms.  
- <span id="page-36-3"></span>■ Support filename extensions to ensure that users on other platforms can recognize and open your files. See *File System Overview* for more information on the importance of filename extensions.
- <span id="page-36-8"></span>■ Use standard protocolsfor data interchange whenever possible. XML is a preferred format for exchanging data among applications and platforms because it is cross-platform and widely supported. Mac OS X also supports numerous network protocols, as listed in *Mac OS X Technology Overview*.
- Save configuration data using the Mac OS X preferences system implementations offered by Cocoa and Core Foundation. These implementations store configuration data in plain-text files, which gives the user the opportunity to modify the data either directly or with a script.
- Design your AppleScript object model carefully to allow for flexibility and future expansion. Good AppleScript integration requires some thought as to how users or other programs might interact with your data. It also requires careful integration with your program's data structures. See *Scripting Interface Guidelines* for more information.  
For more information on how to leverage Mac OS X features and technologies in your application, see ["Using](#page-66-0) Mac OS X [Technologies"](#page-66-0) (page 67).