<!-- Chunk 88 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 728 -->
#### Windows  
The user can use scroll bars by doing the following:  
- <span id="page-85-1"></span>■ Dragging the scroller: This method is usually the fastest way to move around a document. In Mac OS X, the window's contents changes in "real time" as the user drags the scroller.
- Clicking a scroll arrow: This means, "Show me more of the document that's hidden in this direction." The scroller moves in the direction of the arrow. Each scroll arrow click moves the content one unit; your application determines what one unit equals. For example, a word processor would move a line of text per click, a spreadsheet could move one row or column. To ensure smooth scrolling effects, specify units of the same size throughout a document.
- <span id="page-85-2"></span>■ Clicking or pressing in the scroll track: Clicking advances the document by a windowful (the default) or to the pointer's hot spot, depending on the user's choice in General preferences. A "windowful" is the height or width of the window, minus at least one unit of overlap to maintain the user's context. This unit of overlap should be the same as one scroll arrow unit (for example, a line of text, a row of icons, or part of a picture). The Page Up and Page Down keys also move the document view by a windowful.  
<span id="page-85-0"></span>Pressing in the scroll track displays consecutive windowfuls of the document, until the location of the indicator catches up to the location of the pointer (or until the user releases the mouse button).  
It's best not to add controls to the scroll-bar area of a window. If you add more than one control to this area, it's hard for people to distinguish among controls and click the right one. Acceptable additions to the scroll area include a **splitter bar** and a status bar that shows, for example, the current page. To ensure that window controls are easy to use and understand, it's best to place the majority of your features in the menus as commands. If you really want to provide additional access to features, consider creating a utility window such as a palette with buttons. Only frequently accessed features that significantly benefit users' productivity should be elevated to the primary interface.  
Utility windows that coexist with other windows and need to use the least amount of screen space possible may use small scroll bars. If a window uses small scroll bars, all other controls within the window content area should also be the smaller version. For more information, see ["Using Small Versions of Controls" \(page 160\).](#page-159-0)  
<span id="page-86-2"></span>Make sure you don't use a scroll bar when you should really use a slider. Use sliders to change settings; use scroll bars only for representing the relative position of the visible portion of a document or list. For information about sliders, see ["Slider](#page-136-0)  [Controls" \(page 137\)](#page-136-0).