<!-- Chunk 62 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 830 -->
- <span id="page-54-1"></span>■ **About <Application Name>.** Opens your application's About window, which contains copyright information and version number. (For more information, see ["The About Window" \(page 92\)](#page-91-0). If you've specified a short name (see ["The](#page-53-3)  [Application Menu Title" \(page 54\)\)](#page-53-3), use it in the About menu item; use the full application name in the About window.
- **Preferences and other application-specific items.** Preference settings are user-defined parameters that your software remembers from session to session. Preferences can be a way for your application to offer users long-term choices about how the application works; examples include whether to automatically save files periodically and whether to check spelling as the user types.  
<span id="page-54-2"></span>In the application menu, put all commands that provide access to your application's preference dialogs first, followed by application-specific items. Put a menu separator between the About command and the Preferences command. If your application provides document-specific preferences, make them available in the File menu (see ["The File Menu" \(page 56\)](#page-55-1)). Most document-specific preferences should have a unique name, such as Page Setup, rather than Preferences.  
<span id="page-54-5"></span><span id="page-54-3"></span>Use Command-, (comma) as the keyboard equivalent for your application's Preferences command.  
**Note:** Your application should present its own preferences dialogs. Applications may add panes to System Preferences only if the application's preferences apply to the system or to the user's environment as a whole. Such exceptions might include an input device that doesn't have its own interface or a server application that always runs in the background. For more information, see *Inside Mac OS X: Preference Panes,* available on the Mac OS X developer documentation website.  
<span id="page-54-4"></span>■ **Services.** The Services submenu provides a way for one application to offer its capabilities to another application. For example, a user could select a name in a document and choose a Services command that looks up the name using an LDAP server, starts up an email application, and opens a new message window with the found email address in the To field.  
For more information, Cocoa developers should see the Programming Topic "System Services" and Carbon developers should see *Inside Carbon: Setting Up Your Application to Use the Services Menu,* both available on the Mac OS X developer documentation website.  
- <span id="page-55-3"></span>■ **Hide <Application Name>.** This command should be preceded by a menu separator and followed by Hide Others and Show All. If necessary (see ["The](#page-53-3)  [Application Menu Title" \(page 54\)\)](#page-53-3), use the short application title.
- <span id="page-55-4"></span>■ **Quit <Application Name>.** This last item in the application menu should be preceded by a separator. When a user chooses Quit and there are unsaved documents, present the necessary alerts (see ["Saving, Closing, and Quitting](#page-104-0)  [Behavior" \(page 105\)\)](#page-104-0). If necessary (see ["The Application Menu Title"](#page-53-3) [\(page 54\)\)](#page-53-3), use the short application title.