<!-- Chunk 33 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 356 -->
<span id="page-32-2"></span>Identifying and understanding your target audience are important first steps when designing your product. The best way to make sure your product meets the needs of your customers is by exposing your design to their scrutiny. You can do this during every phase of the design process to help reveal what works about your product as well as its flaws. The improvements you make as a result of prototype testing can translate into competitive advantages, increased sales, and enhanced customer satisfaction.  
It's useful to create scenarios that describe a typical day in the life of a person you think uses the type of product you're designing. Think about the different environments, tools, and constraints that your users deal with. If possible, visit actual workplaces and study how people do their jobs.  
Analyze the steps necessary to complete each task you anticipate people wanting to accomplish with your product. Look at how they perform similar tasks without a computer. Then design your product to facilitate those tasks. Don't replicate each step on the computer; your application should make the whole process *easier*.  
Throughout the design process, use people who fit your audience description to test your prototypes. Listen to their feedback and try to address their concerns. Develop your product with people and their capabilities—not computers and their capabilities—in mind.