<!-- Chunk 26 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 428 -->
Keep users informed about what's happening with your product. Provide feedback as they do tasks. When a user initiates an action, provide an indication that your application has received the user's input and is operating on it.  
Users want to know that a command is being carried out or, if it can't be carried out, they want to know why not and what they can do instead. When used sparingly, animation is one of the best ways to show a user that a requested action is being carried out. When a user clicks an icon in the Dock, for example, the icon bounces to let the user know that the application or document is in the process of opening. In Mac OS X, the kernel environment detects when your application doesn't respond to events for 2 seconds and automatically displays a busy cursor.  
For operations that don't execute immediately, use a progress indicator to provide useful information about how long the operation will take. See ["Progress](#page-140-0)  [Indicators" \(page 141\).](#page-140-0) Users don't need to know precisely how many seconds an operation will take, but it helps to give an estimate. For example, the Mac OS uses statements such as "about a minute remains." It can also be helpful to communicate the total number of steps needed to complete a task—"Copying 30 of 850 files," for example.  
Provide direct, simple feedback that people can understand. In error messages, for example, spell out exactly what situation caused the error ("There's not enough space on that disk to save the document") and possible actions the user can take to rectify it ("Try saving the document in another location"). For more information, see ["Writing Good Alert Messages" \(page 232\).](#page--1-2)