<!-- Chunk 277 | Source: 2002 Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.pdf | Est. Tokens: 964 -->
Mac OS X creates a suite of directories for each new user account. This structure is provided to assist users in organizing related types of files, maintain a default location for task-specific applications (such as iMovie), and facilitate transferring files to and from iDisks.  
<span id="page-246-2"></span>There are eight predefined top-level user directories. With the exception of certain subdirectories in the user's home directory (Desktop and Library), users can move or delete these directories.  
The **Library** folder in the user's home directory contains system or application-support files. Within the Library directory is an Application Support directory, in which you can create a developer-specific or application-specific  
Where to Put Files **247**  
directory to contain all files such as document templates, databases, user preferences, nonsystem fonts, product licenses, and plug-ins (see ["Handling](#page-248-2)  [Plug-ins" \(page 249\)\)](#page-248-2). You may want your application to provide its own interface for accessing and managing the contents of this directory.  
Three of the predefined folders in the user's home directory support basic system functionality:  
- <span id="page-247-6"></span>■ **Desktop:** Contains all files visible on the desktop when the user logs in. By default, the contents aren't visible to other accounts. This directory is the default location for files downloaded with a Web browser (the user can change the location in Internet preferences).
- <span id="page-247-4"></span>■ **Public:** Allows the user to share files with local and remote users. By default, the contents are visible to other user accounts. This directory contains a drop box, where others can put files for the owner that aren't visible to other users.
- <span id="page-247-15"></span><span id="page-247-13"></span><span id="page-247-12"></span><span id="page-247-11"></span>■ **Sites:** Allows users to host a website. When the user turns on Web Sharing (in Sharing preferences), other users can access Web pages in this folder. A sample Web page is provided in this directory.  
The remaining directories are intended to provide default locations for storing files. They are not intended to contain files whose primary access is through the application. For example, AppleWorks templates and iTunes music databases should go in the Library directory. The provided directories are the following:  
- <span id="page-247-3"></span>■ **Documents:** The default for storing user-created files not better served by the other directories. Examples include AppleWorks text or spreadsheet documents and TextEdit documents. Don't put application support files—including user preference settings—here; put them in the user's Library directory.
- <span id="page-247-8"></span>■ **Movies:** The default for storing moving images created by the user or exchanged with other users. Examples include QuickTime Player files, iMovie projects, and imported digital video sequences.
- <span id="page-247-9"></span><span id="page-247-7"></span>■ **Music:** The default for storing music, sound, or MIDI files created by the user or exchanged with other users. Applications that generate music or sound-related files should use this directory as the default storage location. Examples include iTunes user playlists and converted MP3 files.
- <span id="page-247-10"></span><span id="page-247-5"></span>■ **Pictures:** The default for storing still images created by the user or exchanged with other users—images downloaded from a digital camera, for example.  
<span id="page-247-14"></span><span id="page-247-2"></span><span id="page-247-1"></span><span id="page-247-0"></span>When a user saves a file to a destination other than the default directory, your application should keep the user's selection as the default location for saving files.